<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-1>
<H1>
Clement renews his criticism of the red/green tax proposals
</H1>
The red/green tax proposals continue to be criticized by members of one of
the coalition's own parties.  Mr. Clement, the Minister President of North
Rhine-Westphalia, called on the government to make a drastic change of
course, to the applause of the opposition.  The General Secretary of the
FDP, Mr. Westerwelle, called Clement's letter incendiary.  Only yesterday,
Chancellor Schroeder said that the red/green coalition had wanted to do
too much, too fast and he admitted mistakes had been made.  Several of
these mistakes were harped on by Mr. Clement.  According to "Focus," he
put down several of his criticisms in writing and sent them to the
Chancellor and the Finance Minister.  In the nine-page letter, Clement is
said to have called upon his party colleagues to make a radical change in
direction. According to "Focus," he said that the current proposals would
be a 30 billion mark burden on the economy at the very least, and this was
no way to create more jobs.  In the same article, Clement called on the
government to lower the top tax bracket to less than 40%, the bottom tax
bracket to 15%, and the corporate tax to less than 30%.  Yesterday Clement
heaped on more criticism, this time of the new regulations proposed for
low-paying or "620 mark" jobs.  In common with the Minister President of
Bavaria, Mr. Stoiber, Clement declared that the federal government would
have to answer for the tax shortfalls these regulations would cause the
states.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-2>
<H1>
State party conference of the Bavarian Greens
</H1>
Criticism of Clement's criticism came today from Erlangen, site of the
state party conference of the Bavarian Greens.  With reference to Clement,
party spokeswoman Gunda Roestel warned against unraveling the Bonn
coalition agreements.  She said that red/policies had to be implemented as
agreed upon, point by point.  Gunda Roestel also expressed criticism of
recent statements by the the Federal Interior Minister, Mr. Schily, who
has rejected the idea of increased immigration into Germany.  People
recognized that such sentiments are often voiced by SPD rank and file in
the local pubs, said the Green spokeswoman, but they must not be inflamed
by the party's office holders.  In her speech, Gunda Roestel also
mentioned structural reforms in her own party.  She said that serious
thought had to be given at both the federal and state level to the recent
deviation from a fundamental Green principle, to wit, that officeholders
should be recallable in the middle of their term if they cease to
represent the will of the members.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-3>
<H1>
German Rail sidetracks investment plans
</H1>
German Rail has confirmed that a planned investment in new trains will be
postponed.  At the same time it rejected a report by the news magazine
"Der Spiegel" that the railroads would be making drastic cutbacks in
passenger service.  In its Monday edition, "Der Spiegel" wrote that 2.3
billion marks in cutbacks are scheduled to be made in short-haul service
between now and the year 2003.  The magazine said that orders for 600 new
locomotives, rail cars, S-Bahn cars and new experimental "leaning trains"
have been cancelled.  The reason for all these cutbacks, according to Der
Spiegel, is a downward trend in this year's number of short-haul
passengers.  In contrast, German Rail maintains that the planned
investments are being pushed back by technical difficulties with the new
trains.  According to German Rail, none of the new generation of trains
that have been supplied so far have been without serious problems once
they got out the drawing room and onto the tracks.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-4>
<H1>
Support for ARD and ZDF
</H1>
The German Federation of Unions as well as many individual unions have
called on their fellow citizens to stand up for public broadcasting.  A
conference on the media closed with a joint statement.  It said that in
the absence of public broadcasting, both the variety of information and
the freedom of public opinion -- two pillars of a functioning democracy --
would be endangered.  Broadcasting could not be reduced to a purely
commercial enterprise, the statement continued.  The union appeal found
support among the Minister Presidents of both Thuringia (Mr. Vogel, CDU)
and North Rhine-Westphalia (Mr. Clement, SPD).  Both men spoke out in
favor of shoring up the public broadcast system.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-5>
<H1>
Study of leukemia holds reactor responsible
</H1>
For the first time evidence has appeared to confirm the suspicion that the
rise in cases of leukemia in the Schleswig-Holstein community of Elbmarsch
has something to do with the Kruemmel nuclear reactor.  A scientific study
undertaken by a citizen's group has shown that the community is
contaminated with plutonium from the reactor.  According to the report by
a scientist from the University of Bremen, in some places the recorded
amounts are several times the permissible levels.  The Schleswig-Holstein
Environmental Minister will look into the charges.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-6>
<H1>
Damages suit by holocaust victims
</H1>
Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank have moved in a New York court to dismiss
a class-action suit against them by victims of the holocaust.  According
to their motion, the banks were not enriched by property taken from
inmates of the concentration camps.  Five holocaust survivors have filed a
suit against Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank for approximately 30 billion
marks in damages.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-21-7>
<H1>
North Frisian islands again in danger
</H1>
Oil from the damaged freighter Pallas is again being driven against the
shore of the North Frisian islands.  The beaches could be covered with oil
all over again, said a spokeswoman of the Schleswig-Holstein Environmental
Ministry.  Fires on the Pallas have not been completely extinguished, but
despite that, more oil is being pumped out.  Up 600 tons of heavy and
diesel oils still remain in the wreck.

