<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-1>
<H1>
CSU begins spurt to the finish line in electoral campaign
</H1>
With the slogan, "Bavaria's victory is Germany's gain", the
CSU stepped into the final stretch of the electoral campaign this
morning. Over 1,000 delegates were expected to attend the party's
62nd convention at the new Munich exposition facility. As a rule,
CSU conventions take place in the fall, but time is running out,
state and federal elections are coming up. The convention was
therefore a short one. Contrary to tradition, the 62nd convention
was a single day event; tomorrow CSU activists will swarm out
campaigning all over Bavaria. Said Secretary General Bernd
Protzner: "This convention occurs just before a historic electoral
decision come September, historic for both Bavaria and Germany.
It is a convention beginning our spurt towards the electoral
finish line.
<P>
CSU chairman Theo Waigel, speaking before the convention,
warned against a march into a new kind of republic. In his
speech, he accused the SPD candidate for chancellor of
lack of principles. Waigel said he was sure Schroeder was avid
to obtain the power, but was not sure of what Schroeder wanted
to use it for. Waigel called the federal elections a choice of
direction for Germany's future. "This event today is a
demonstration of a politically middle-of-the-road Bavaria
against a march towards another kind of republic. We want
this Free State and none other, this kind of republic and none other!"

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-2>
<H1>
YAT to be banned from landing in EU
</H1>
The European Union, as a reaction to the continuing Kosovo crisis,
intends to ban the Yugoslav airline YAT from landing in European
Union airports. This decision was originally taken during the
Cardiff summit, but Greece and the UK raised objections after
the meeting. Now the ambassadors of the 15 member countries are
trying to reconcile these divergences so action might finally
be taken. Should this reconciliation not occur, the matter will be
treated by the foreign ministers' conference early in September.
In the foreign ministers' council the London and Athens objections
can be overruled by a majority vote. Should it happen that against
all expectations the EU would cancel a punishing measure after
deciding upon it, this would constitute one more loss of face
in Europe's Balkan politics.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-3>
<H1>
Ramstein - 10 years later
</H1>
10 years after the tragic air disaster in Ramstein (Palatinate),
a public memorial act for the victims took place in the town
today. On August 28, 1988, on the US air base located there,
three planes of an Italian acrobatic team converged and crashed
into the massed spectators. Within the moment, a merry popular
event turned into a deadly inferno. The accident happened when
Italy's acrobatic air squadron "Frecce Tricolori" tried to act
out the "pierced heart" stunt. The terrible numbers of the disaster:
70 dead and more than 400 injured. The survivors and
the relatives of the person killed are suffering the consequences
to this day. Many suffer from nightmares and from traumatic disturbances,
although most of them learnt to live with the
sequels, thanks to a self-help group led by Kaiserslautern
psychotherapist Hartmut Jatzko. The matter of indemnity has not
yet been resolved to the content of all concerned. There were
payments of medical and rehabilitation expenses, but the Ramstein
victims want more than this. They hired a Berlin lawyer to sue
for psychological damages. But today, all was once more an
occasion of mourning for the dead. Several memorial events had
been prepared by victims' relatives.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-4>
<H1>
Girl missing for four years found dead
</H1>
Neu-Brandenburg police arrested a man on suspicion of having
murdered a 10-year-old girl from Mecklenburg. The body of
the child, who had vanished without a trace in August 1994,
was found by workers inspecting a sewage line last week.
The coroners have absolute proof of identity for the remains.
Police do not rule out connections to other murders occurred
in Northern Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-5>
<H1>
Schmidt-Jortzig wants total reform of judiciary
</H1>
In the future, citizens will obtain their rights much more
quickly than up to now. According to minister for justice
Schmidt-Joertzig, the judiciary system is due for an
all-encompassing and profound reform. According to the
minister, the now prevailing tortuous path through several
levels of judiciary authority will be replaced by a 3-tier
system. Mainstay will be a considerably strengthened first
authority, which will bear the brunt of the proceedings.
A second, higher court will be limited to hearing appeals
based on procedural defects or on evidence turned up after
the initial judgment. The Federal high court would be the
third and final stage.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-6>
<H1>
Medical warnings against increased exposure to chemicals
</H1>
The association of medical practitioners in the social security
system of Northern Wuerttemberg published a study showing
that more than 10 million new materials have been created worldwide
along this century, whose impacts on human health are only very
slowly being discovered. In Germany alone, more than 8,000
chemicals are being used in foodstuffs. Several natural matters,
e.g., nitrates, also become dangerous because of an increase in
concentration.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-28-7>
<H1>
UEFA Cup matches determined by drawing lots
</H1>
A hard lot for Bayer Leverkusen. In the first round of UEFA Cup
games, Christoph Daum's team will have to play against Italy's
Udinese Calzia. VFW Stuttgart will play against Feyernod Rotterdam of the
Netherlands, Schalke 04 against Slavia Prague, and Werder
Bremen will travel to Norway to meet Brann Bergen.

