<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-1>
<H1>
Stoiber insists on strict interpretation of Maastricht criteria
</H1>
Bavarian Minister President Stoiber continues to insist on a strict
interpretation of the Maastricht criteria for the Euro.  The CSU
politician told the ZDF on Friday evening that people in Germany
were much more skeptical about giving up their currency than the people
of other countries.  Thus watering down the criteria for the
introduction of the Euro would be a mistake in psychological terms. The net
debt limit of three percent, he continued, was not arrived at by
chance.  It was necessary, he said, in order for the Euro to become
as stable as the mark.
During an interview with the LEIPZIGER VOLKSZEITUNG, the
parliamentary faction leader of the CDU/CSU, Mr. Schaeuble, charged
that Mr. Stoiber was making the people feel unsure by debating
about the stability of the Euro.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-2>
<H1>
Mr. Waigel warns against discussing the postponement of the Euro
</H1>
Federal Minister for Finance, Mr. Waigel once again warned against
discussing the postponement of the introduction of the common
European currency.  At the district party convention of the
CSU of Central Franconia in Gunzenhausen, he openly expressed his
disagreement with Bavarian Minister President Stoiber.  Mr. Waigel
emphasized that it is precisely an economy as dependent on
exports as the German economy which has to count on the common currency.
At the same time, he affirmed the determination of the Bonn
Coalition to the strict observance of the deficit criterion of 3.0
percent.  Mr. Ost, head of the economic policy committee of the
Parliament made a similar statement.  The CDU politician told the
DEUTSCHLANDFUNK that further efforts in financial and economic
policies were necessary for the fulfillment of the conditions of
participation.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-3>
<H1>
Federal Labor Institute is to sell outstanding claims to bank
</H1>
In order to close budget gaps, the Bonn government has directed the
Federal Labor Institute to sell outstanding claims to a bank.  The
head of the executive board of the Nuernberg agency told the
HANNOVERSCHE ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG that this was an attempt to cover
up the desolate condition of the budget with increasingly
adventuresome measures.  The total value of the loans which the
Federal Labor Institute had granted to installations for the
handicapped, ABM carriers but also to the unemployed, amounted to
2.2 billion marks, she said.  But, Mrs. Engeles-Fischer continued,
the bank would obviously only accept the sale at discounts in nine
figures.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-4>
<H1>
Tax reform into next round
</H1>
Two days after the coalition in the Bundestag introduced their tax reform plan,
the discussion about it has entered a new round. Representitives of the
coalition and the SPD opposition accused one another of blocking an agreement. Minister of the Chancellor's Office Bohl said in an interview that
that the SPD has got to get off of the brake pedal. At the same time he
pressed for new talks with the Social Democrats. These could occur during
the summer legislative break, according to Bohl, in order to reach a quick
settlement. When the comments of the leaders politicians of the SPD are
considered, however, the chances of this settlement occuring are apparently
slight. For instance, Niedersachsen's Minister President Schroeder said that
he doubts that tax reform can still occur in this legislative period. The tax
plans of the coalition are not financeable, he said. The SPD could agree at
some point to the dismantling of tax on investment capital and to the reduction
of employee benefit costs. SPD chief Lafontaine sees chances for agreement to
some extent with the reduction of social contributions or of the unification
taxes. In Lafontaine's opinion it is the government's responsibility that no
compromise has yet been reached. The SPD-dominated Bundesrat will take up the
debate this coming Friday. One week later the bill will go to the reconciliation committee, where the desire for compromise will show itself.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-5>
<H1>
Hardthoehe dismisses reports on Eurofighter deficits
</H1>
The Federal Defense Ministry has disputed reports that the controversial
Eurofighter is suffering severe technical problems. A speaker for Hardthoehe
explained that the development of the warplane was still on schedule. The
Ministry was not aware of any mistakes. The news magazine DER SPIEGEL reported
that both the electronic navigation and the radar of the Eurofighter did not
meet specifications. The SPD Defense expert Opel recommended a delay in purchase of about three years, according to the magazine.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-6>
<H1>
Merkel is disappointed about the New York environmental summit
</H1>
New York. Federal Environmental Minister Merkel has shown her disappointment
about the results of the environmental summit in New York recently. She said
that more significant progress would have been desireable in the matters of
protection of the climate and forests. In spite of that, advances were made
in the cases of traffic, energy, tourism and water resources. Many other
countries' delegations spoke of disappointing results from the New York
conference. The 170 participating nations made a non-binding resolution at
the conclusion of the summit, where they set their concerns about the environment down on paper.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-7>
<H1>
Lower Saxony's Greens refuse coalition with SPD to their advantage
</H1>
Eight months before the next Landtag elections the Green party in Lower Saxony
has ruled out a coalition to aid the Social Democrats. At the caucus in Hitzacker a resolution to this effect did not win the necessary majority among
party heads. The justification for the vote was based on the content of
platforms in the final analysis. The most important goal was an economic
policy that carried the ecological requirements out in a programmatic way.
The Green Party was not available for the mere purpose of ensuring a majority
for the SPD government. The delegates accused Minister President Schroeder of
having waged a campaign of social demolition. A stronger commitment to environmental issues on the part of SPD politicians was also called for.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-8>
<H1>
Schroeder: No coalition in Lower Saxony with the FDP
</H1>
There is no option for Lower Saxony's Minister President Schroeder of making
a coalition with the FDP. He characterized North Rhine-Westphalia FDP leader
Moellemann's proposition in Duesseldorf that he, Moellemann, could be open to
a possible breaking of the red-green coalition to create a social liberal
coalition and so send a signal before the Federal Elections. Schroeder
considered the offer to be overly self-important. The SPD politician told the
THURINGER ALLGEMEINE, published in Erfurt, that no government could be made
with the one-sided client politics of the FDP. Schroeder is considered one of
the possible Chancellor candidates in his party.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-9>
<H1>
German sweep in Formula 1
</H1>
Formula One racing seems to be swept under a German tide. During final training
for the Grand Prix of France Michael Schuhmacher secured the pole. Places two
and three were taken by Heinz-Harald Frentzen and Schuhmacher's brother Ralf.
At Magny Cours, the trio from the Rhine were thus responsible for the greatest
qualifying success in the history of the Grand Prix for Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-10>
<H1>
Ralf Waldmann loses to Harada in Assen
</H1>
Ralf Waldmann fron Ennepetal was barely defeated in the motorcycle Grand Prix
of the Netherlands in Assen in the 250 cm division by the Japanese racer
Harada. Nonetheless, the driver for Honda took the lead in the season
standings.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-11>
<H1>
German track championships in Frankfurt
</H1>
Susan Tiedtke-Green won the long jump at the 97th German Track Championships
at the Waldstadion in Frankfurt with a mark of 6.86 meters. Behind the jumper
from LG Hof, Sabine Braun from Wattenscheid took second with 6.83 meters, and
two time world champion Heike Drechsler from Erfurt finished third with 6.75
meters.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-28-12>
<H1>
Land under water after heavy rainfall in northern Germany
</H1>
Heavy rainfall has flooded many streets and basements in northern Germany.
Police reports show that the most affected areas are Hamburg and Neumuenster.
Within two hours there were 200 emergency calls registered. The fire departments were busy without rest. In some tunnels water stood over 1 meter deep,
and many cars were trapped.

