<DOC de-news-1999-02-20-1>
<H1>
Kurdish protest rallies
</H1>
The leadership of the workers' party of Kurdistan (PKK) has issued
statements today at its Cologne offices calling for a declaration of war on
Turkey.  The summons specifically urged, however, that no armed incidents
should occur in Western Europe.  It seems that this restriction has been
observed as tens of thousands Kurds demonstrated peacefully throughout
Germany today to campaign for their incarcerated leader Ocalan.

<P>
Bonn resembled a war zone today with extensive police units patrolling the city
the Israeli Embassy was fenced off and surveillance helicopters circled above.
Some 7000 Kurds assembled at the Israeli Embassy to dedicate a wreath,
commemorating their three compatriots that had been killed by the security
forces of the Israeli Consulate on Wednesday.  The Kurds accuse the Israeli
intelligence service of having assisted in the arrest of Ocalan. Other
protest rallies today took place in Mannheim, Stuttgart, Bochum and Bielefeld
with a total of several thousand Kurds attending.  Security forces were in
place to protect party offices and public buildings.  The demonstrators waved
PKK flags, but other than that the situation remained peaceful throughout.

<P>
Interior Minister Schily criticized the intelligence agencies for
failing to anticipate the Kurd riots.  The fact that the PKK was able to
prepare militant activities in secret was an alarming prospect, Mr.
Schily said.  The government is negotiating with Turkey to obtain
guarantees for the safe return of the Kurds.  This would make
the deportation of criminal Kurd immigrants quicker. But they should not
be exposed to the risk of torture or the death penalty, the government
argues, backed by the Opposition.  The parties of the opposition also
demand a tougher stance in immigration policy.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-20-2>
<H1>
Flood
</H1>
The water level of the Neckar river seems to be less threatening than
initially assumed.  The high water mark in Heidelberg is now expected to be
at about 5 meters.  The dams protecting the old town of Heidelberg are
designed to withstand a level of 6.80 meters.  The side arms of the Rhine
from the Black Forest are also above normal.  The water level of the Moselle
river is rising by 10 centimeters every hour; it is expected to reach 6.50
meters in the evening.  The town of Cochem and other towns lining the Moselle
will flood at a level of 6 meters.  The rainy weather and mild temperatures
provoking the melting of snow will not change before Monday.  In Bavaria,
too, perpetual rain has aggravated the danger of flooding.  In the district
of Donauries, the water level of the Danube river is currently at 3.90
meters.  Several roads had to be closed to traffic.

