<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-1>
<H1>
Possible widening of Kosovo war
</H1>
British Prime Minister Tony Blair has warned Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic against trying to seize power in the Yugoslavian constituent
republic of Montenegro. Blair told the House of Commons in London that the
government in Montenegro had been promised full support from the West.
According to news agency reports, Serb soldiers made attacks there today.
Montenegrin President Milo Djucanovic refused to put his republic's police
force under control of the Yugoslav military.
The European Union wants to impose an oil embargo on Yugoslavia. Reports
from diplomatic circles in Brussels indicated that EU ambassadors had
reached an agreement to that effect. Such a decision would still require
the approval of the EU foreign ministers, who plan to meet on Monday.
Meanwhile, the first of a total of about 24 American Apache battle
helicopters have arrived in Albania. They are to be used against Serb
tanks.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-2>
<H1>
NATO confirms use of radioactive munitions
</H1>
NATO has confirmed that it is using munitions with radioactive housing in
its attacks on Yugoslavia. A NATO spokesman in Brussels said, however,
that the amount of uranium present did not pose any health dangers to
civilians. The ARD television news program "Monitor" had reported that A10
attack planes and Apache helicopters were equipped with radioactive
munitions which could cause radiation damage to soldiers and civilians.
According to military experts, munitions with a housing containing
enriched uranium-238 are especially hard, and capable of breaking through
even massive armouring.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-3>
<H1>
Scharping: no talking to Milosevic
</H1>
German Defence Minister Rudolf Scharping has said that Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic was no longer worth talking to in the Kosovo conflict.
Rather, Milosevic simply belonged in front of the War Crimes Tribunal in
The Hague, according to Scharping.
A decision about sending a German telecommunications battalion to Albania
for humanitarian aid may be made next week. The federal cabinet had
discussed the question, but not reached a decision. Meanwhile, a German
destroyer has left its harbour in Kiel, heading for the Adriatic, to
strengthen the NATO presence there.
The spokesman for the alliance, Jamie Shea, described the building bombed
last night in Belgrade as the center of Milosevic's propaganda machine.
The building is Milosevic's socialist party headquarters.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-4>
<H1>
Deutsche Telekom-Telecom Italia fusion a done deal
</H1>
The hurdles to a deal fusing Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia together
have apparently all been passed. The Italian company's administrative
council has agreed to the merger, according to numerous reports out of
Rome. It had apparently only been awaiting a promise from the German
Finance Ministry that the German federal administration, as majority
shareholder in Deutsche Telekom (still holding 3/4 of the shares), would
refrain from interfering in the operation of the fused company.
Meanwhile, however, the Italian government has declared that it must still
examine the deal.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-5>
<H1>
Improvements to 630-DM-job rules?
</H1>
Top SPD and Green politicians, under the leadership of Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder, have met in Bonn to discuss possible revisions to their recent
regulations pertaining to the so-called 630-DM-jobs and nominally
independent contract work ("Scheinselbstaendigkeit"). Federal Labour
Minister Walter Riester (SPD), as well as the SPD and Green caucus
leaders, Peter Struck and Rezzo Schlauch, are taking part in the
discussion. The SPD caucus yesterday advised against hasty changes.
Following those discussions, the two parties will meet for their fourth
round of coalition talks.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-6>
<H1>
Single-track Transrapid line, to save money?
</H1>
The plans to build a Transrapid magnetic rail line between Hamburg and
Berlin might be scaled back to allow for only a single length of track.
The Magnetic Railway Planing Company
("Magnetschnellbahn-Planungsgesellschaft") has confirmed the reports, for
financial reasons. A spokesman for the company said in Berlin that
building a single, rather than a double length of track, was conceivable.
He emphasized, however, that feasibility studies were not yet complete.
The Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper reports that the railway does not
expect the promised 6 billion DM from the federal government would be
enough for a full length of double track. The company has also revised,
downward, its projections of 11 to 15 million passengers a year.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-21-7>
<H1>
Constitutional Court: classroom crucifixes allowed
</H1>
Bavarian (elementary school) classrooms are have the fundamental right to
display crucifixes. The Federal Constitutional Court in Berlin has ruled
that there are no constitutional objections to the corresponding provision
in the Bavarian state school laws. At the same time, however, the court
upheld the case of an atheist who demanded, invoking an objection clause,
that the crucifix in his daughter's classroom be removed. Lower courts had
previously rejected the man's case.

