<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-1>
<H1>
State Parliament elections in Brandenburg and Saarland
</H1>
In Brandenburg and Saarland, almost 3 million people were asked today
[Sunday] to elect new State Parliaments. In both states, the Social
Democratic Party (SPD) was trying to defend its absolute majority. In
Saarland, the last polls indicated a tight race between State Premier Mr.
Klimmt and the Christian Democratic Party's (CDU) candidate Mr. Mueller.
In Brandenburg, the SPD could be forced to govern within a coalition. The
races in both states were dominated by national politics. In the center of
the discussions were the red-green savings package and the disputed social
security plans. The result of the elections also determines the future
majority in the Bundesrat (Upper House).

<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-2>
<H1>
Results of State Parliament elections
</H1>
In the state parliament election in Brandenburg, the SPD has lost
its absolute majority. According to the preliminary official result, it
received 39.3 percent of the votes. That is almost 15 percent less than in
the last election. The CDU gained almost 8 percentage points and received
26.5 percent of the votes. The Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS)
increased its share by 5 percent and reached 23.3 percent. The right-wing
German People's Union (DVU) received 5.3 percent and will therefore sit in
the parliament. The Free Democratic Party (FDP) and the Green Party failed
to reach the 5 percent required to receive seats in the parliament. Voter
turnout was 54.4 percent.
<P>
In Saarland, the CDU won the parliamentary elections with
45.5 percent, 7 percent more than last time. The SPD lost its absolute
majority after 14 years and received only 44.4 percent of the vote.
Because none of the other parties reached 5 percent, CDU top candidate Mr.
Mueller can govern by himself in Saarland.
<P>
SPD leader and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has admitted
the defeat of his party in the state parliament elections in Saarland and
Brandenburg. He agreed that the losses were caused by national politics.
Voters are against the government's savings program, Mr. Schroeder said in
Berlin. Nevertheless there is no alternative, he added.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-3>
<H1>
Discussions about structure of SPD
</H1>
SPD leaders have discussed the future management structure of the
party. German Chancellor and party chief Gerhard Schroeder has made a
proposal to the party leadership. Mostly at issue is the future role of
Transportation Minister Mr. Muentefering and Secretary-General Mr.
Schreiner. Most likely Mr. Muentefering will give up his Ministry in order
to prepare the election campaign 2002 as SPD Secretary-General. Ottmar
Schreiner will probably leave the party leadership and move into the
government as Secretary of State.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-4>
<H1>
Turmoil over dismissal of Mr. Sauter
</H1>
The political tug-of-war over the dismissal of Bavarian Minister of
Justice Mr. Sauter in connection with the LWS affair continues. A speaker
for the Bavarian Premier's Office stressed again that the dismissal by
State Premier Mr. Stoiber is effective immediately. Minister of the
Interior Mr. Beckstein will lead the Ministry of Justice for the time
being. Mr. Sauter remains formally in office until the State Parliament
has made a decision, but he has no responsibility for the Ministry any
more. This is the state government's reaction to Mr. Sauter's refusal to
give up his office before the state parliament has agreed, as required by
the state constitution. The Premier's Office added that Mr. Sauter will
receive his dismissal papers tomorrow [Monday], and that he is not
expected to participate in the cabinet meeting on Tuesday.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-5>
<H1>
Hundt accuses government of violation of trust
</H1>
President of the Employers' Association, Mr. Hundt, has accused
the government of trust violation. Mr. Hundt told the weekly paper "Welt
am Sonntag" that the Chancellor has promised the industry a tax reform
with a maximum tax rate of 35 percent by January 1, 2000. Now the reform
has been postponed for an intolerable period. In addition, the government
is planning a tax rate which amounts to 40 percent, including trade tax
and solidarity surcharge. This does not give the impulse necessary to
create new investment, Mr. Hundt said. Overall, companies' taxes are not
reduced during the current legislative period, but burdened by another
12.5 billion marks. Mr. Hundt wants to bring up tax policy during the next
meeting of the Coalition For Work.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-05-6>
<H1>
Remembering victims of attack during Olympic games
</H1>
On the anniversary of the murderous attack on Israeli athletes during the
Munich Olympic games in 1972, the Vice-President of the German Jewish
Committee, Charlotte Knoblauch, has pointed out the good relationship
between Germany and Israel. The Palestinian terrorists did not manage to
destroy the fledgling reconciliation between the two countries. During the
unveiling of a memorial for the victims of the attack, in
Fuerstenfeldbruck near Munich, Ms. Knoblauch said: "Today, Germany is a
good advocate for Israel in Europe." State Premier Mr. Stoiber stressed
that violence can not become a means of political discussion.

