<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-1>
<H1>
Primakov visits with Kinkel
</H1>
Primakov , the Russian Foreign Minister, is expected today for a
visit to Bonn. The focus of his talks with his German colleague Klaus
Kinkel will most likely be the planned Eastern expansion of NATO. In this
context, both politicians hope to address the relationship between Russia
and NATO. While the differences in opinion concerning an expansion of NATO
to the Western border of Russia are an important subject of the political
talks, Mr. Kinkel hopes that they will not dominate Mr. Primakov's
visit. There is little doubt that even after Primakov's Easter visit,
Russia will not be in favor of allowing its former allies to enter the
Western alliance. Similarly, NATO will not abandon its plans. Therefore,
the foremost function of the visit is to bring about a positive
atmosphere, as well as to establish mutual trust. The major emphasis is
put on the private portion of the visit, which began at noon, with a walk
through the vineyards above the river Aar, on which the ministers were
accompanied by their wives. Primakov is scheduled to taste German wine,
take a cruise on the Rhine, and attend an Easter service tomorrow,
together with Foreign Minister Kinkel. Mr. Kinkel had already learnt
about the merit of such private tours during the visit of his Czech
colleague a few weeks ago. The foreign ministry now hopes that Kinkels
semi-private approach to diplomacy will also work on the Russian
leadership; president Yeltsin is expected in mid-April.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-2>
<H1>
German opinions regarding NATO Eastern expansion
</H1>
The spokesman on foreign politics of the SPD parliamentary group,
Mr. Vogt, has said that the Western alliance needs to realize the planned
Eastern expansion, as well as expand its cooperation with Russia. In an
interview with the radio station "Deutschlandfunk," he further voiced
optimism that there would be no further confrontations, but rather
that there would be a chance to build a new European peace.
In a second interview, Helmut Lippel of Buendnis 90/The Greens
noted that his groups' support of the Eastern expansion continued to be
dependent on the question of whether the alliance was to insist on
keeping its old structure or was going to be a restructured NATO. He
added that individual members of his party differed on this question.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-3>
<H1>
Bluem calls German businesses not to let business ethics deteriorate
</H1>
Minister of Employment Norbert Bluem has advised German
enterprises not to let German business ethics deteriorate. Following the
attempted hostile takeover of Thyssen by Krupp, Mr. Bluem said in an
interview with the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag," that such strategies had
nothing to do with social market economy, but were reminiscent of the
wild west.

<P>
Similar sentiments were voiced by North Rhine-Westphalia's minister of
employment, Clement, of the SPD. Krupp's CEO Kromme, on the other
hand, anticipates further attempts of takeovers within the German
economy in the future. Kromme noted that it was time to depart from
obsolete business structures.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-4>
<H1>
Reports of new savings package not verified
</H1>
The government has not verified recent reports of a new
savings package. A speaker for the Ministry of Finance announced that new
savings measures would not be resolved until after the coming tax
evaluation in May. Finance Minister Theo Waigel, however, reaffirmed his
intention to cut social aid premiums, in order to create a larger
difference to the lowest income classes. According to a report by the
newspaper "Bild Zeitung," the government also plans cuts in unemployment
benefits and civil servant salaries. The newspaper further reports
that the governing coalition is considering to grant unemployment
benefits beginning only during the second week of unemployment. Civil
servants are scheduled not to receive their March pay raise until May.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-5>
<H1>
UNO refugee organization criticizes German government
</H1>
The spokesman for the UNO refugee organization in Germany, Mr.
Diluegen, has criticized the governmental repatriation program for Bosnian
refugees. In an interview with the radio station "Deutschlandradio
Berlin," he pointed out that not marital status but the ability to find
accomodations for the refugees should be the deciding factor in
repatriation decisions. The UNHCR estimates that some 200,000 former
Bosnian citizens will be forced to return to their home from their
current locations in various European countries. Diluegen estimates that
50,000 residential units will be necessary to accommodate this number of
people. He added that a more likely estimate of the number of units
actually available was only around 13,000. The government has resolved
to repatriate only refugees without children for the next few months, and
to begin repatriating families in May.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-6>
<H1>
No word from kidnappers of German tourists abducted in Yemen
</H1>
The abductors of the four German citizens abducted in Yemen on
Thursday have not come forward so far. Yemen officials are not releasing
any information, either, asides from a statement that a crisis committee
had been formed and that the area in which the abduction had taken place
had been secured by Yemen police. The only known facts are that the
abducted party consists of two men and two women, who had been on their
way from Sana to Mareb, in order to visit the ruins of the former capital
city of Sabeer. They had been accompanied by a Yemenite guide. The ruins
are located in the East of the country, at the edge of the large sand
desserts which cross all the way into neighboring Saudi Arabia.
Although the Yemenite government has jurisdiction over the oil wells in
the area, this region is mainly ruled by tribal leaders. The tribes
traditionally sympathize with nearby Saudi Arabia. Thus, political
motives for the abduction are unlikely. More likely, this is yet another
case of the modern day robbery which has become frighteningly popular in
Yemen. It is expected that there will be a demand for ransom. More than
eighty foreign tourists have been kidnapped during the past six months,
most of them in precisely this area. The latest case was that of seven
German riding their motorbikes through Yemen, who had been held prisoner
by tribal warriors in the South of the country. While official sources
have denied any reports of the height of the ransom, there have been
rumors that the ransom demand runs into tens of millions.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-29-7>
<H1>
The Weather
</H1>
Partly clear, partly cloudy. Occasional showers, with snow showers in
the mountainous regions. Increasing chance of rain during the second
half of the day in the regions South and West of the Elbe river. Snow
in the higher regions. High temperatures between 4 and 10 degrees
Celsius. Overnight lows between 7 and 0 degrees.

