<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-1>
<H1>
Clinton's re-election welcomed
</H1>
Bill Clinton's victory in the American presidential election has
been met with congratulations from around the world. German President
Herzog expressed his conviction that nothing could ever shake the strong
foundations of German-American Friendship. Chancellor Kohl and other
leading German politicians also congratulated Clinton on his re-election.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-2>
<H1>
Fiszmann's killer suspected in two other kidnappings
</H1>
The accused kidnapper and murderer of Frankfurt businessman
Fiszmann was apparently involved in two other kidnappings as well.
According to the public prosecutors in Frankfurt and Cologne, there are
indications that Korpen, who is presently under arrest, held Fiszmann's
nephew captive for several days in 1991, and the son of an Offenbach
businessman in 1993. In searching Korpen's former home, police claim to
have found evidence that Fiszmann's nephew, who was then six years old,
had been hidden there. There is also supposed to be evidence in the 1993
case, in which a ransom of 2 million marks was paid, pointing at Korpen.
Korpen and his son have been in police custody since the middle of
October.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-3>
<H1>
Cabinet approves health reform bill
</H1>
The federal cabinet has agreed upon another bill to bring about the
third stage in health reform. Its goal is to change the regulations
governing state health insurance, as well as to stabilize contribution
premiums. Federal Health Minister Seehofer said that the reforms would
ensure that only medically necessary and socially essential services would
be financed through contributions. Thus, travel costs, health spas, and
home care would no longer be covered. People requiring dentures will
receive fixed-amount lump-sum payments from their insurance company, but
will settle the dental bill privately. As well, everyone with state health
insurance will have to make a special payment of 20 marks within the next
3 years toward hospital maintenance. The state insurance companies will be
able to offer or restrict services beyond the catalogued minimum. Social
Minister Blum objects to the exclusion of home care from coverage, fearing
additional burdens on nursing care insurance.
The introduction of elements of private health insurance, such as the
right to switch insurance companies, is not likely to take place, as had
been discussed, with the bill.
The SPD and the Greens criticized the bill as a burden for the chronically
ill, and as dismantling an intact health care system. The Bundestag begins
debating the bill next week.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-4>
<H1>
Blum: Nursing care insurance will not be touched
</H1>
According to Employment Minister Blum, the federal government is not
planning to touch nursing care insurance in order to keep pension payments
down. In a special sitting called by the SPD, Blum told the Bundestag that
the state nursing care insurance system would close 1996 with a surplus of
8.7 billion marks - which it needed. He also indicated that pension
contributions would have to be increased in 1997, but the exact amount was
left open.
The FDP confirmed that the coalition had been considering delaying the
transfer of contributions for pensioners' nursing care insurance from
pension coffers in order to keep pension contributions under 20 percent in
the coming year.
The vice-chairman of the SPD, Dressler, said that the SPD had foiled a new
attempt by the coalition to manipulate the social security system.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-5>
<H1>
Other decisions of the federal cabinet
</H1>
The federal cabinet today approved the "Old Vehicle Ordinance". It
requires the auto industry to take back unwanted old cars, as long as they
are no more than 12 years old. The ordinance complements a declaration of
self-regulation by the industry. Vehicles registered before the law's
coming into force will be excepted. Owners who do not dispose of their old
vehicles in a manner consistent with the ordinance face a fine of up to
100,000 marks.
The cabinet also approved the introduction of the new European driver's
license in the middle of next year. The credit card-sized license is
supposed to be harder to counterfeit than the old one. Drivers will not be
required to trade in their old license for a new one.
The cabinet agreed to give traffic violators a break, as well. In the
future it will be possible to work off demerit points by taking lessons in
safe driving.
In addition, a bill to rewrite the rules governing product packaging was
approved; the new rules will improve conditions for the use of re-usable
containers for drinks.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-6>
<H1>
FDP: Coalition almost split over tax dispute
</H1>
According to the FDP, the governing federal coalition was close to
breaking up over the dispute about taxes and the solidarity supplement.
Party leader Solms said the alliance was seriously jeopardized, and both
sides were considering their options. Then, a talk with the Chancellor had
the effect of a cleansing storm, Solms said; an agreement to wait until
the middle of December to decide whether and how much to lower the
solidarity supplement has ended discussions on alternatives to the
coalition.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-7>
<H1>
Settlement in so-called wood preservative trial
</H1>
After more than 12 years, a settlement has been reached in the
so-called wood preservative trial at the regional court in Frankfurt. The
parties came to the agreement that the chemical companies involved will
give 4 million marks to finance a new chair for environmental studies at
the University of Giessen. Also, the two accused former managers of the
wood preservative company Desowag will each pay a fine of 100,000 marks as
well as the legal fees of the defence and the joint plaintiffs. They have
been found not guilty of the charges brought against them.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-8>
<H1>
Calls for voluntary labelling of genetically altered food
</H1>
Federal Research Minister Ruttgers has called upon the food industry
to label genetically manipulated foodstuffs voluntarily. In an interview
with the New Osnabruck Paper, Ruttgers said that otherwise there would
soon be a sticker for food not changed through genetic technology -
because people wanted to know what was in their food.
Soya beans thought to have been genetically manipulated were introduced to
Germany for the first time yesterday through Hamburg harbour. Greenpeace
protested the importation of the soya beans. Environment and consumer
protection groups fear health risks from genetically altered foodstuffs.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-9>
<H1>
Teufel: state cannot cut any more to save money
</H1>
Premier Teufel of Baden-Wurttemberg, faced with a deficit of
millions of marks, says there are few places left to make savings in the
state budget. Teufel said a critical limit had been reached in all areas.
Nevertheless, the state's goal would remain keeping new debt down.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-10>
<H1>
President of Bavarian senate steps down
</H1>
The president of the Bavarian senate, Schmitt-Glaser, has
unexpectedly announced his resignation. He said he would step down on 27
November. The move was obviously in response to all-party criticism of
remarks he made about the Landtag. Earlier this morning the 63-year-old
rejected the idea of resigning.
Schmitt-Glaser, in a speech, had questioned the effectiveness of the
Landtag and reproached its deputies for "lacking expertise".

<DOC de-news-1996-11-06-11>
<H1>
Directors: fusion of SDR and SWF radio necessary
</H1>
According to the directors of the SDR and SWF radio
institutions, a fusion of the two - and hence the founding of a new
two-state institution in the south-west - is essential. Both made it clear
to the survey commission looking into reforming the German radio system
that simple cooperation in programming would no longer be sufficient. They
said that a two-state institution in the south-west would allow
state-specific programmes to be improved. SDR director Funfgeld called on
the politicians to solve the problem of where the future broadcaster
should locate its stations and headquarters quickly.

