<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-1>
<H1>
Union to limit plan for combination wage to 4 years
</H1>
The Union introduced its plan for the so-called combination wage. With
government subsidies jobs with low wages will become more attractive for
both employer and employee. The Union wants to create new opportunities
in particular for the long-term and chronicly unemployed. The opposition
and the unions are doubtful that this could be realized. According to
plans of CDU and CSU, long-term unemployed who accept a lower wage job
will receive subsidies from the government, increasing their income to 73
per cent of their last net income. For workers with children the
percentage will be 4 per cent higher. Overall combination wage worker
will have a third more money and a job which is subject to insurance. The
combination wage will be tested for four years, and funds will come from
taxes for unemployment assistance. According to Federal Minister of Labor
Norbert Bluem, the federal government will save money if the project
succeeds. Critics are skeptical. The Greens and the unions caution
against wage dumping. Representatives of the industry and economy are
opposed, as well as the FDP, warning that the state must be careful not
to subsidize too much which could in turn cost the government far more.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-2>
<H1>
Inauguration of memorial for victims of Berlin Wall
</H1>
A memorial for the victims of the Berlin Wall has been inaugurated on the
37th anniversary of the Wall. But even after the festivities criticism
remains that the Wall is too artistic and therefore loses its terror. 70
metres of newly plastered wall on Bernau Street are framed by two over 6
metre tall steel walls, in the centre of which is the former death strip
where dramatic escape scenes happened. According to Federal Minister of the
Environment, Angela Merkel, the history of the Berlin Wall is tightly
connected with German and European history since 1945. This testimony of
German separation must be preserved to keep the memory alive, Ms Merkel
said. Berlin's Governing Mayor Eberhard Diepgen said that the memorial must
remain a mental trip wire reminding of the historical facts.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-3>
<H1>
Argument about piece of music for reunification festivities
</H1>
Lower Saxony and the Federal Government are arguing about a piece of music
composed for the reunification festivities on October 3rd. Otto Hauser urged
the Ministry of the Interior in Hanover to abandon the plans for the piece
which contains elements of the West German national anthem and the East
German national anthem. The idea shows bad taste, Mr Hauser said. This year,
Lower Saxony is in charge of the anniversary festivities. The Ministry of
the Interior rejected the criticism and insisted on showing the piece, which
also contains parts of the song "Good-bye Johnny".

<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-4>
<H1>
Another CDU politician under suspicion
</H1>
In the murder affair of Treasurer Wulfert a second CDU politician is under
suspicion of the police in Saxony-Anhalt. The public prosecutor's office
accuses the District President Webel of fraud. Mr Webel belonged to an
association which unlawfully received subsidies from the Labour Office.
Mock bills amounting to over DM 500,000 were signed by the district
president. Mr Webel rejects the suspicion.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-5>
<H1>
Police action in Bad Kleinen again in question
</H1>
Five years after the police action in Bad Kleinen the official version
of the death of terrorist Wolfgang Gram is in question. In proceedings
led by the parents of the shot terrorist against the Federal Republic,
witnesses said that Gram did not shoot himself but was executed. The
parents of Gram doubt that their son committed suicide on rails of the
train station in Bad Kleinen in June of 1993. One witness said that she
heard shots directed to Gram when he was lying on the ground. Another
witness claims that he even saw the shooting. It is also unclear why the
head and the hands of Wolfgang Gram were washed the night after his
death removing potential traces. The court will continue to hear
witnesses tomorrow and will also meet at the crime scene at the train
station of Bad Kleinen.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-13-6>
<H1>
Sentence for Maggi extortionist
</H1>
A 38-year-old man who wrote seven extortion letters to the food concern
Maggi was sentenced to three years in prison. He had threatened to poison
foodstuffs if Maggi refused to pay him DM 6.5 million. The public
prosecutor's office demanded four and a half years in prison, but since
the extortionist was willing to confess and had never placed poisoned
food in the supermarkets, he received milder punishment.

