<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-1>
<H1>
Discussion Continues Over Castor Shipments
</H1>
Federal Minister of the Environment Merkel confirmed that, in view
of the publicized problems, no more nuclear waste will be shipped with
Castor containers for the time being. In an interview with ZDF, Merkel said
the Association for Reactor Safety will now have to investigate what
precautions power suppliers will need to take in order to guarantee safety
and strict adherence to acceptable exposure limits. Merkel and the
federal government have come under pressure on account of the radioactive
nuclear waste containers. Not only the oppositional SPD and the Buendnis
90/Green parties, but also the FDP called for an immediate parliamentary
debate on the subject.

<P>
SPD parliamentary leader Peter Struck demanded that Chancellor Helmut Kohl
give the matter high priority. Meanwhile, in Bavaria, Minister of the
Environment Thomas Gockel has made several decisions. He said that there
will be no more Castor shipments through Bavaria until the causes of the
containers' radioactivity have been fully understood. This ban will
remain in force independent of any decisions by the Federal Ministry of
the Environment. In addition, he said, Bavaria would launch its own
thorough investigation of the procedures.

<P>
Meanwhile, nuclear plant operators have admitted mistakes in the Castor
container shipments. A statement put out by Bavarian Power in Munich
stated that technical solutions will be assiduously and effectively worked
towards. But, it continued, the role that politics has played in this
matter has been underestimated. Experts explained that the radioactivity
of the nuclear containers has been known about in technical circles since
the beginning of the 1980s. The Darmstadt Eco-Institute cited reports
from this period by the American nuclear supervisory authorities. Professor
Schlich, a production engineer from the University of Geissen, said that in
1983, 1990 and 1995, scientists pointed out to the courts that the outside
4of the containers was contaminated. Representatives of the nuclear
supervisory board were present on these dates. For this reason, Schlich
doubted that the Federal Minister of the Environment had not known anything
about the radioactivity of the containers.

<P>
Angela Merkel meanwhile denied reports that the radioactive contamination
of the Castor containers had been known about since the 80s. She said
discussion at that time had been solely about the drying-out process, and
she rejected statements by Castor expert Elmar Schlich to the contrary.
She added that actual violations of the acceptable exposure limits had
never been mentioned.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-2>
<H1>
CSU Criticized For Its Ideas On Immigration Policy
</H1>
The CSU has been criticized by its coalition partners, the CDU and
FDP, for its ideas on immigration policy. Geissler, the Union's acting
parliamentary leader, said that immigration policy was not a suitable topic
for election campaigns; careful and fact-based discussions should take the
place of speeches. FDP general secretary Westerwelle said that the
"untimely"  positions of the CSU should not be absorbed into the common
campaign platform of the union. The head of the police union, Lutz, also
criticized the policy. Lutz said that simple sentiments like "Immigrants,
Get Out!"  might be very In at the local bar, but in practice they were
completely unworkable.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-3>
<H1>
SPD Candidate for President to be Named After Parliamentary Elections
</H1>
According to party chief Lafontaine, the SPD will put off
naming its candidate for President until after the parliamentary
elections. At a special party conference of the North Rhine Westfalian
Social Democrats, Lafontaine said the decision could best be made after it
was clear what the composition of the federal assembly would be. But, he
added, there was no doubt that departing North Rhine Westfalian state
leader Rau had the qualifications for the highest of government offices.
After 21 years, Rau wants to step down from the chairmanship of
the SPD's largest state party at the special party conference. His
successor is supposed to be federal secretary-general of the SPD,
Muentefehring. Besides this, the delegates want to nominate Economic
Minister Clement as a candidate for head of government in North Rhine
Westfalia.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-4>
<H1>
No Summit Meeting About A Reduction in Overtime
</H1>
The employers have rejected a summit meeting with the German
federation of unions over the reduction of overtime. The general
secretary of the federation of German employers, Goehner, said that this
is a matter for wage contracts in the various industries and not for some
sort of summit meeting. In Goehner's view, overtime could best be lowered
through flexible work times.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-5>
<H1>
Viagra Could Lead To a Collapse of the Health System
</H1>
The potency pill Viagra could lead to a collapse of the health
system according to Baumgaertner, the chief doctor in Stuttgart. The
chairman of the doctor's association of North Wurtemberg told the
"Stuttgarter Nachrichten" that insurance companies could expect additional
costs of 30 billion German marks a year. Baumgaertner assumes that
under present regulations, 1 million Germans could rightfully claim a
prescription to Viagra. He suggested that doctors and the insurance companies
agree not to reimburse costs for the potency pill.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-6>
<H1>
German Doctors' Conference Ends
</H1>
The German doctors' conference came to an end at noon. Voting
had to be suspended on approximately 30 proposals -- among them measures
concerning the regulation of doctor's charges and the late termination of
pregnancies -- because there was no longer a quorum. In his concluding
remarks, Wilmer, president of the doctors' association, said that the
doctors' goal was to make sure that the principle of social solidarity
enshrined in state-mandated health insurance was fiscally secure. The
only arguments were over how. The doctors' conference is the profession's
highest decision making body, with power over 350,000 doctors.

<P>
But taken as a whole, the doctors' conference has seldom been this
contentious. The first proposal out of the plenary session called into
question the proportional financing of state-mandated health insurance; it
proposed that the insured should dig deeper into their pockets. However,
the conference later called for shoring up the welfare state.  This meant that
politicians should not allow cuts in a health insurance system that has proven
reliable just as it is. Among the few decisions that meant something good
for the wallets of the insured was the resolution that hospitals and their
doctors should make a better effort to employ expensive medical equipment
to its full capacity. Beyond that, the parliament of doctors determined
that the
continuing education rules were being stretched. Therefore, the continuing
education program, which has been thus far been very unsupervised, will be
tightened up.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-23-7>
<H1>
Germany in the World Team Cup Finals
</H1>
The German tennis team has reached the finals with a 3-0
victory over Spain. Besides Thomas Hassa and Nicola Kiefer in the
singles, Boris Becker and David Prinosil also won the doubles. Tomorrow's
finals opponent is the Czech Republic.

