<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-1>
<H1>
Bundestag debate on European policy
</H1>
Foreign policy was the main theme of today's session of the Bundestag.
Or more to the point - international trade and the recent EU summit.
There was a consensus between government and opposition on the
principle
that international trade ought from here on to take into account
social
and ecological aspects. The government promised to argue strongly on
that
matter in the upcomng world trade conference. Discussion on European
policy didn't run as smoothly. It will be long road to travel, foreign
minister Joschka Fischer said, but the first step towards a common
European legal area was taken at Tampere. In Fischer's definition, a
common legal area means that any citizen of a member nation should be
able to go to court in any other member nation as easily as he would
in his own country. Government and opposition are agreed on the aim.
But Juergen Ruettgers, the CDU's leading candidate for next year's
state parliamentary election, flatly denied that any progress in that
direction had occurred in Finland. To which minister for internal
affairs Schily replied, "The important thing is that in Tampere we
succeeded with our proposal for a European police academy. We made
progress in the fight against laundering of funds. We succeeded in
attaining the establishment, in the near future, of an operational
task force of Europe's police chiefs." A Europe-wide common policy
on asylum seekers is another established aim. Countered Juergen
Ruettgers, "Isn't it the other way round? Shouldn't Germany take a
leaf from her European neigbours' book and at last start treating
asylum seekers according to the prevalent European standard?" Talking
to reporters later on, minister Schily announced he was talking with
the UN administration in Kosovo on the one hand, and the state
ministers
of internal affairs on the other, in order to have all 180,000 Kosovo
refugees who are still in Germany repatriated by the end of next year.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-2>
<H1>
Retired citizens protest against government plans
</H1>
The government's retirement plan made the hackles rise on a lot of
retired Germans. They vented their revolt in Berlin today. There,
several thousand senior citizens joined in a protest march, the
main complaint being the plan to have retirement pay raises, which
now follow net wage evolution, limited to the inflation rate.
"Hands off retirement pay! Keep your promises" - that was the
demonstration's watchword and the basic tenor of the Brandenburg gate
meeting. 10,000 retired people protested against govenment policy.
People in retirement today are the ones that helped build the nation's
social system based on solidarity, and now they are continuously
suffering cuts in their pay. The senior citizens demonstrated their
will to fight the plans with whistles and rock'n roll music. A
government unwilling to carry out its financial responsibility
towards the aged and infirm doesn't deserve support. Orators from the
"Reichsbund" association, who organized the protest, demanded that
instead of cutting expenses in the social area, the policy should
rather be plugging tax loopholes for big corporations. The retired
people claim for policies that strengthen union in solidarity and
assure retirement pay in the long view.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-3>
<H1>
Official results of Baden-Wuerttemberg municipal elections
</H1>
The CDU is the undisputed winner of last weekend's municipal
elections.
According to the official results published by the ministry for
internal
affairs, the Union made substantial gains especially in big cities,
In the election for municipal parliaments, they showed a statewide
gain
close to 5% receiving 40.4% of the votes. SPD lost 2%, the Greens
close
to 3%, and in municipal council elections, the Union was also up front
with 34%.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-4>
<H1>
Labor contract signed in Bavaria's energy sector
</H1>
Employers and unions agreed on a 36-hour week. A spokesman for OeTV
union said in MUnich tonight that the 2 hour reduction is expected to
put a brake on the current reduction in force rampage. In response to
this consensus, the unions kept wage raises for 2000/2001 down to
1.2% per year. The new contract comprises some 17,000 employees of
Bavaria's private power companies.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-5>
<H1>
Defense attorneys plead for mild sentences in Nivel case
</H1>
It was the defense's day in the Essen Nivel affair judgement. Close
to 16 months after the brutal attack on policeman Nivel by German
holligans, the defendants' lawyers preesented their concluding
statements. They appealed to the court not to knuckle down to
widespread
public demand for harsh sentences as a deterrent.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-6>
<H1>
Organised crime and person-smugglers expanding
</H1>
The numbers of person traffic and of arrested person-smugglers
in germany increased by 50%, according to the ministry for internal
affairs. Insofar as human traffic and organized crime are closely
intedrrelated, the federal information agency issued a warning that
crime was on the uprise. The agency asked that foreign citizen's
departments and German embassies abroad be informed about police
search bulletins.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-7>
<H1>
Minister insists on payments to Eastern health insurance
</H1>
Despite their forceful protests, private and company-owned social
security funds will have to contribute to the multibillion aid
program for East Germany's public social insurance institution AOK,
if health minister Fischer gets her way. The private funds call
the order to pay these subsidies a despotic act. The Eastern AOK
had themselves to blame for their bad financial state, they said.
Fischer wants to link these payments to the health reform plans.
The Union parties said they would resist in the upper chamber.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-28-8>
<H1>
Demands for a reform of social home construction
</H1>
The federal association of German homebuilders asks for a change
in social home construction legislation. In the last two years,
four ministers have held the construction ministry; therefore, there
was no constant policy and reforms kept being pushed ahead. To get
a change in this respect, home builders invited a number of
politicians today in order to tell them their troubles. The law
should be reformed to allow financial backing for conservative
action such as as revamping and modernizing ezisting constructions
rather than for building new ones, said the association's chairman
Steinert. "The problems the social homes market is suffering today
do not primarily stem from new construction, but from lack of
conserving what exists, of improving the environment, of
modernization, of what could be sloganized as "overburdened
neighbourhoods". Overburdened neighbourhoods means that social
peace is increasingly disturbed in low income housing areas.
They threaten to turn into slums. Vandalism, petty crime, drug use
are words linked to it." In his opinion, to reinforce the
infrastructure means creating neighbourhood agencies and self-help
groups, as rising unemplyment contributes to the deterioration
of low-income areas all over Germany.
"All politicians involved with social housing projects, on both sides
of the political spectrum, in federal and state governments, agree
that a legislative reform contemplating both conservation and new
building is necessary. But the law was voted down in the former
legsilative period, and now it is not even on the agenda. We appeal
to the federal government to finally put the derailed legislation
back on the tracks." Federal construction minister Klimmt promised
to work for better speed in working on the matter. As to setting
priorities for financial subsidies, he said he would decide on a
case to case basis and taking regional differences into account.

