<DOC de-news-1999-05-29-1>
<H1>
No changes in NATO strategy
</H1>
Despite indications of a willingness of Yugoslav
President Milosevic to agree to NATO's terms, NATO will not change its
strategy in the Kosovo crisis for the time being. Following the fourth round
of negotiations between the Russian envoy and Yugoslavian representative
Mr. Cernomyrdin, news emerged from Belgrade that President Milosevic
would accept the terms of the G8 countries for peace in Kosovo. A NATO
spokesman commented in Brussels that more details are needed than were
available from the reports from Belgrade yesterday. Until that time, NATO
will stick to its guns.

<P>
Chancellor Schroeder voiced optimism that the diplomatic efforts to put an
end to the Kosovo conflict will advance steadily. At the close of two-day
long French-German consultations in Toulouse, Mr. Schroeder noted that
Belgrade's position has become more flexible in recent days and that this
should be explored further.

<P>
President Chirac of France emphasized that President Milosevic will have no
leeway to manipulate the terms laid out by the G8 countries.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-29-2>
<H1>
Germany sends reinforcements to Balkans
</H1>
The USA and Germany have reinforced their troops in the Balkans. US
Secretary of Defense Cohen intends to deploy another 86 fighter jets and
refuelling planes over Yugoslavia. Federal Defense Minister Scharping is
planning to station an additional 900 soldiers in Macedonia and Albania.
Scharping denied speculations that NATO had discussed the deployment of
ground troops during a secret meeting in Bonn.  According to Scharping, the
talks had focused not on combat but on a peace mission of an international
force after the end of the conflict.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-29-3>
<H1>
FDP national party convention in Bremen
</H1>
The FDP wants to put itself back on the map as proponent of social policy and
do away with its credibility deficit in this area. Their core idea is the
so-called 'citizen's credit.' Tax-funded benefits and services for citizens
should in the future only be disbursed through the fiscal authorities. The
second proposal of the FDP's national board for a radical tax overhaul had
previously been passed by the delegates with an overwhelming majority. The
objective is to make the tax system easier and more transparent. Only a
simple tax system is a fair one, the proposal says. At the heart of the
liberals' model is a flat tax for all income tax brackets. The goal is an
overall reduction of the tax burden. According to the FDP, the overhaul
would largely finance itself by stimulating the economy. At the same time,
subsidies should be phased out and tax loopholes closed.

