<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-1>
<H1>
Disagreements over Savings Package Worsen
</H1>
Immediately prior to the protest events organized by the German
Federation of Unions (DGB) scheduled for today, the disagreements over
the savings package have intensified. Vice DGB-Chair Engelen-Kefer
considered the continuing affirmations that the savings package would
create jobs and balance the governmental budget to be deceitful. In an
interview with the radio station "Deutschlandradio Berlin," she explained
that on the contrary, the effect of the measures would be exactly the
opposite. DAG chair Issen called on the government to return to the
basics of the social democratic state. He added that the savings package
would not add any positive impulses to the economy.
Meanwhile, Minister of Economics Rexrodt reaffirmed in an interview with the
news agency "ddp" that the planned cuts in job protection and continued
salary payments during sick leave would ensure and create more jobs.
The controversies surrounding the governmental savings package also dominated
the fiftieth anniversary of the CDU social committee in Herne. Rainer
Eppelmann, chair of the Christian democratic employees, criticized the
employers' support of the savings plans. He explained the leading
employer representatives were trying to abuse current popular problems in
order to push for mainstream capitalism.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-2>
<H1>
Demonstrations Against Savings Package
</H1>
The unions report that more than 2000 people all over Germany have
demonstrated against the Bonn savings package today. At a central event
in Berlin, the vice chair of the DGB called the governmental plans the so
far harshest attack by the government on the social democratic state. She
further accused employers and the governing coalition of dividing society
into two camps and of creating new conflicts in Germany, through the
savings package. Federal Minister for Employment Bluem, on the other
hand, defended the resolutions. In an interview with the radio station
"Deutschlandradio Berlin" he said that those who wanted to preserve the
social democratic state had to redefine it. Demonstrations were held not
only in Berlin, but also in Dortmund, Hamburg, Ludwigshafen, and Stuttgart.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-3>
<H1>
Chancellor Kohl Visits Russia
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl has traveled to Moscow for a one-day visit to the Russian
president. Kohl is the first foreign head of government whom Yeltsin has
received since his re-election. The visit has additional special importance
since Yeltsin is about to undergo heart surgery. The chancellor has long
been aware that Yeltsin is staying at his country residence about 100
kilometers North West of Moscow not for vacation, but rather he is
recovering from the exhaustion of his re-election campaign. There had been
speculations about the possibility of an operation, weeks before Yeltsin
officially admitted that he was planning to have surgery. The meeting
with Kohl is scheduled to last about four hours, despite Yeltsin's poor
health. Both dinner and a walk are to be part of the meeting. The relaxed
atmosphere traditionally has been a part of the meetings between Kohl and
Yeltsin, who are also personal friends. There is no set agenda, according
to the German government. One of Yeltsin's foreign advisors, on the other
hand, announced that Yeltsin has been preparing for the meeting for
several days. According to the advisor, topics to be discussed at the
meeting are the current crisis in Iraq, the respective relationships of
Germany and Russia to the state of Ukraine, which the chancellor has
visited last week. One of the topics discussed at Kohl's visit there was
the planned Eastern expansion of NATO. American diplomats have told
reporters that the chancellor would be able to tell president Yeltsin
that NATO will not make any decisions on the acceptance of new members at the
meeting of foreign ministers in December. At the December meeting, there
would only be a discussion concerning the next steps to be taken toward
this goal. Kohl further plans to assure Yeltsin that the West is working
toward a very close partnership with Russia.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-4>
<H1>
Seehofer Calls for Redevelopment of Health Insurance Companies
</H1>
Federal Minister of Health Seehofer has urged the insurance companies to
come up with redevelopment concepts, rather than to raise their premiums.
Unless the insurance companies took such measures, their deficit was
likely to be over 10 billion Marks, rather than less than that amount,
Seehofer said in a newspaper interview. He stressed that the premiums
should not be raised simply to finance mismanagement and wasteful
budgeting. Seehofer added that he himself was going to do everything in
his power to ensure that employers and employees would have to carry no
further undue burdens. He especially criticized the advertising costs
accrued by the insurance companies, which he claimed had increased
dramatically. He is prepared to cut more than a billion Marks from the money
allotted to insurance companies by the government, in order to prevent
useless advertisements.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-5>
<H1>
Van Mierdt Considers Subsidies for East Germany to be Unwarranted
</H1>
Van Mierdt, the EU commissioner for competitiveness, does not consider
preferential treatment for East Germany to be warranted. In an interview with
the news magazine "Focus," van Mierdt said that seven years after the
opening of the border, there was no reason to be more generous toward the
new Bundeslaender than for example toward economically disadvantaged
regions in Portugal or Spain. While he did appreciate the necessity for
continuing subsidies over years to come, he also pointed out that there
were other regions that were even worse off economically.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-07-6>
<H1>
Alleged Investigations Against the "Commerzbank"
</H1>
More and more banks and their customers are being investigated by tax
examiners. Following the investigations into the finances of the
"Westdeutsche Landesbank," the news magazine "Der Spiegel" now reports
that leading managers of the "Commerzbank" are suspected of tax evasions.
Investigations were initiated against the chair of the board of the
"Commerzbank," Martin Kohlhausen.

