<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-1>
<H1>
Before the discussion on the Pope's apostolic letter...
</H1>
The Archbishop of Munich, Cardinal Wetter, is hoping that the German
Episcopate will reach agreement regarding pregnancy consultation. One
day before the meeting of bishops to discuss the Pope's letter which has
not as yet been published, Cardinal Wetter said that the Catholic Church
wants to help both women and children. The bishops are going to have a
closed meeting tomorrow in Wuerzburg to discuss the apostolic letter
from Pope John Paul II. Preliminary interpretation of the text has
already been described as pure speculation. However, it is relatively
certain that the Pope has asked the German Catholic Church to no longer
give any of the so-called pregnancy consultations which are a condition
for the authorisation of an abortion in Germany. The CDU/CSU coalition
party in Bonn hope that the Catholic Church will not withdraw from the
pregnancy consultation system. The chairman of the coalition, Wolfgang
Schaeuble, said to the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung" newspaper that
the goal of these compulsory consultations, was after all to protect the
unborn child.

<P>
The surprising news was released on Wednesday that the German Bishops
wanted to hold discussions over the Pope's request regarding pregnancy
consultation. A spokesman for the German Bishops Conference confirmed in
Bonn that the majority of the bishops will arrive tonight [Sunday
evening] at the Wuerzburg monastery. The chairman of the conference,
Bishop Lehmann, has requested more time for the discussions. The public
will be informed of the results on Tuesday. Meanwhile various groups
from the church have been demonstrating in front of Wuerzburg cathedral
for the Catholic Church to remain within the state system of pregnancy
consultation.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-2>
<H1>
Discussion on fiscal equalization between the German states
</H1>
Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg plan to hold a maximum of six
months of negotiations on changing the system of fiscal equalization
between the German states. Edmund Stoiber, the State Premier of Bavaria,
said that should those states being allocated extra funds still refuse
to cooperate, both Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg would submit their
case to the Constitutional Court by July at the latest. Mr. Stoiber
continued that a political solution, however, would be preferable to
asking the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe to rule on the case. Heide
Simonis, the State Premier of Schleswig-Holstein, renewed her criticism
of this threat. She said that the various Ministers of Finance for the
German States did not want work on the finances again, if the case was
going to be taken to Karlsruhe whatever happened. Ms Simonis is of the
opinion that reforming the system would totally overturn the present
fiscal equalization policies.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-3>
<H1>
FDP state party convention in the Saarland
</H1>
The FDP state party convention began today with a speech
by the retiring chairman of the Saarland FDP, Mr. Teusch. Mr. Teusch
said that he was sure that the FDP in Saarland would be able to return
to parliament next year. The FDP received only 2.1 percent of the vote
in the last state parliament elections. Delegates at the convention plan
to vote for a new state chairman this afternoon. The favourite candidate
for the post is 69-year-old Mr. Klump.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-4>
<H1>
Still no hot lead in the Carla case
</H1>
Despite around 200 tips from members of the public, the C.I.D.
still have no hot lead in the case of Carla. The 12-year-old girl was
found in the area of Wilhermsdorf near Fuerth on Thursday. She had been
brutally attacked and raped on her way to school by an unknown
perpetrator. She is in hospital at the Erlangen University Clinic in an
artificially-induced coma. Her condition remains critical, although,
according to police sources, her circulation has stabilised. The police
investigation into the case is concentrating on an Opel Omega, which,
according to witnesses, was seen at the scene of the crime on Thursday
morning. The car sped from the scene of the crime over a field near a
pond at high speed with no lights and drove off in the direction of
Wilhermsdorf.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-5>
<H1>
Call for total rescinding of unjust Nazi verdicts
</H1>
The Minister of Justice for Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Mr. Eggert,
has called for a total rescinding of unjust Nazi verdicts. Speaking in
Schwerin, Mr. Eggert said that the governing coalition in Bonn cannot
allow itself to block this any longer. The SPD politician emphasised
that the investigation of individual cases would overtax the courts and
delay the rehabilitation of those affected.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-25-6>
<H1>
Diegl contradicts Kanther in doping controversy
</H1>
Diegel, the president of the German Light Athletic Association has
contradicted Mr. Kanther, the Federal Minister of the Interior in the
debate over doping. Mr. Kanther had said that top-performance German
sport was free of doping. Mr. Diegl, however, emphasised in the
"Interview of the week" program on "Deutschlandfunk" radio that this is
not the case, even though the situation in Germany is better than in
many other countries.

