<DOC de-news-1998-12-19-1>
<H1>
Another attack against German Railways
</H1>
Another attack has occurred against German Railways one day after it
announced the recent attempt at extortion. The unknown perpetrators laid
tree trunks this morning on the tracks of the Soltau-Hanover line. A local
train hit the obstacle near Fallingbostel in Lower Saxony, but no injuries
were reported. It is still unclear as to whether the attack was connected
to the extortion attempt. The Federal police have begun an investigation
and searched the route by helicopter. The authorities only know that the
perpetrators felled six tree trunks and laid them over the tracks. The
largest of the them, a trunk 15 meters long, brought the regional train to
a standstill. Among other things, the locomotive suffered damage to its
fuel line. The route was closed for two hours.

<P>
Another incident occurred last night, this time in Brandenburg on the line
between Neustadt an der Dosse and Friesack. Several people were discovered
on the tracks, and the trains could only advance slowly. However, this was
apparently not an attempted attack. A German Railways spokesman said that
an investigation found no signs that the tracks had been tampered with.

<P>
German Railways received a blackmail message several weeks ago when
unknown perpetrators threatened to damage the tracks. The blackmailers are
demanding 10 million German Marks.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-19-2>
<H1>
Salim can be extradited
</H1>
The alleged terrorist Mamdu Salim can probably be extradited to the United
States in the coming weeks. A spokesman of the Bavarian Ministry of
Justice confirmed this on Bavarian radio this afternoon. According to the
spokesman, the federal government has decided that Salim's extradition is
permissible.  Salim is suspected of belonging to Osama Bin Laden's
terrorist group, which is held responsible for many attacks against mainly
American facilities in the Middle East and Africa. The US government has
apparently assured the German government that they would not impose the
death penalty on Salim in the United States.  This was a prerequisite for
the extradition of the man who was arrested on September 16th near the
Munich airport by a special forces police commando. The American
authorities are accusing the Sudanese citizen of conspiracy to commit
murder as well as the preparation of bombings. The German Upper Court in
Munich declared the extradition of the 40-year-old to be permissible in
November, but the German government had to make the final decision. It
seems clear that the Sudanese citizen will be transferred from the Federal
jail in Munich-Stadlheim, where Salim has been held since his arrest, to
the USA before the end of the year, but no one at the jail could say
whether this will occur by this weekend.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-19-3>
<H1>
Former Head of the Jewish Central Committee's Grave Desecrated
</H1>
According to the police, the grave of the former head of the
Jewish Central Committee in Germany, Mr. Galinski, was bombed. The
perpetrators apparently damaged or destroyed the gravestone. No additional
details are known at this time. Berlin's president of the police force
immediately drove to the scene of the crime.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-19-4>
<H1>
Fischer intends to continue reform of medical reimbursement system
</H1>
Federal Minister of Health Ms. Fischer intends to continue with a
thorough reform of the medical reimbursement system next year. Ms. Fischer
was quoted in the "Tagesspiegel" as claiming that many physicians were
despairing that the present confusing system of medical fees is forcing
them to practice assembly line medicine, which they do not want to do. The
more the doctors work, the less they get reimbursed for individual
services. However, she continued, this vicious circle could not be
ameliorated by setting aside more money for the public health system.
Instead, the present means must be distributed more wisely.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-19-5>
<H1>
Bavaria intends to deport more criminal youths
</H1>
According to the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag," Bavaria intends to
deport more young foreigners convicted of offenses.  There are 60 known
cases in the Free State of Bavaria in which foreign children and youths
have committed multiple criminal offenses. These youths face possible
deportation, like the 14-year-old Turkish youth Mehmet, who was deported
to Turkey a few weeks ago. The Ministry of the Interior had no statement
regarding this development. The Buendnis 90/Greens have accused the Union
of encouraging anti-foreign prejudices. They added that the Union was
simply trying to distract attention from its disorientated policies.
Bavaria's Minister President Stoiber this afternoon called for a tougher
line on foreigners' rights.

