<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-1>
<H1>
Lafontaine: Proposal on bringing forward tax reforms
</H1>
The chairman of the SPD, Oskar Lafontaine, has proposed immediate
negotiations on bringing forward the tax reform to the government.
Lafontaine said in a newspaper interview that the Social Democrats were
prepared to negotiate day and night with the government in order to achieve
a decrease in taxation for employees as early as January 1 1998. In
addition, Mr Lafontaine argued that the Kohl Government had made false
promises in their election campaign more than once, so that one could not
believe them when they promised to introduce tax reforms by 1999. The
Minister of Finance, Waigel, had already indicated that due to
technicalities a tax reform at an earlier date would not be possible .

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-2>
<H1>
Waigel will discuss financing of extraneous social insurance benefits
</H1>
The Federal Minister of Finance, Theo Waigel, has extended an offer
to discuss the financing of extraneous benefits currently paid by the
various social insurances from the Federal budget. Waigel said on ZDF TV
that it is quite possible to argue that training and retraining programs
presently financed by the Federal Labour Office did not belong to the
Federal budget. However, the case with the Pension Insurance Fund was quite
different. The Federal Minister of Employment, Norbert Bluem, had demanded
in a newspaper interview that extraneous benefits presently paid from the
Pension Insurance Fund should be financed from taxes, otherwise he would
not present a draft for reforming the pension fund. His point of view is
shared by several CDU/CSU politicians. The head of the Hamburg branch of
the CDU, van Boist (sp?), said in on ARD television that he was of the same
opinion as Bluem and that sales tax could only be increased if the pension
fund were relieved of extraneous payments.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-3>
<H1>
DAG: Tax Reform is an "unsocial patch-up job"
</H1>
The National Union of Employees has described the proposed tax reform as an
"unsocial patch-up job". A member of the DAG board, Freitag, said that the
tax reform needs to relieve the social insurance system. He said that
contributions to pension, medical aid and unemployment funds are
dangerously high due to extraneous payments of 100 billion marks per annum
which artificially inflates the cost of labour in Germany. The Union for
Trade, Banks and Insurances said that the government's plans were
scandalous and that the proposed changes would only benefit those with
higher incomes who were barely affected by the increased sales tax. The CSU
parliamentary group leader Glos, warned CDU/CSU politicians against
publicly criticizing the tax reforms, saying that suggestions for
improvements should be discussed internally.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-4>
<H1>
Kinkel: Call not to forget Jewish persecution
</H1>
The Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, has called for Germans not to
forget the persecution of Jews during the Third Reich. On the occasion of
the commemoration day for the victims of National Socialism, Mr Kinkel said
that one should look at, rather than look away, when people in Germany were
humiliated because of their skin colour, nationality, or sex or when their
rights were infringed on. Several events commemorating the Holocaust have
already taken place in Berlin today. The Mayor of Berlin, Eberhard Diepgen,
linked the remembrance of persecution victims to a call for democracy,
understanding and tolerance.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-5>
<H1>
President of the Employers' Association Hundt defends proposed tax reform
</H1>
The president of the Employers' Association, Dieter Hundt, has
defended the planned tax reform. Hundt said to Hesse Radio that the reform
would bring significant tax relief for companies and would, in addition, be
a clear signal to foreign investors. Hundt emphasized that the tax reform
should include examining all social benefits. The tax reform has
encountered bitter resistance from unions in particular.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-6>
<H1>
Zwickel wants to regulate proportion of foreigners on German labour market
</H1>
The chairman of the Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics,
Klaus Zwickel, wants to advocate regulating the proportion of foreigners on
the German labour market. Zwickel said to the Munich magazine FOCUS that he
considers quotas necessary for relieving the job market and social
tensions. He added that these new regulations should be included into
immigration laws.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-7>
<H1>
Kanther demands a legal basis for bugging operations
</H1>
The Minister of the Interior, Manfred Kanther, has called
for a speedy decision regarding the legal basis for bugging operations.
Kanther said in a newspaper interview that the SPD and FDP found that
aspects of the electronic bugging of private residences of suspects are
still problematic and had to be resolved in February. The CDU politician
substantiated his demand with a judgment of the Federal High Court which
had ruled that the acoustic observation of a German-Curdish clubhouse in
Stuttgart was unauthorized as there was no legal basis for the bugging. Two
Curds were charged of being members of a terrorist organization and of
instigating malicious arson. The Stuttgart higher regional court had
refused to prosecute because evidence had been collected by illegal means.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-8>
<H1>
Wissmann: Foreign companies to participate in the Transrapid project?
</H1>
The Minister of Transportation, Matthias Wissman has discussed
bringing in foreign companies to participate in the financing of the
Transrapid magnetic high-speed rail project. Wissmann said to the paper
"BILD am Sonntag" that foreign European companies could participate in the
business consortium and thereby also share in the economic risks involved.
Wissman rejected further involvement in the project by Federal government.
About two weeks ago the minister had indicated that there was a possibility
that the Transrapid project could possibly be abandoned.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-9>
<H1>
Beckstein: "A combined action against Scientology"
</H1>
Bavaria's Minister of the Interior, Beckstein, has appealed to his
colleagues in the other German States for combined proceedings against
Scientology. Beckstein said to the German News Agency that the Scientology
organization uses extremely harsh methods, even to the extent of massive
physical maltreatment, to bring members who have fallen out of favour back
into line. The states of Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg have drafted a
resolution for the Bundesrat, the goal of which is to initiate a
preliminary investigation into the Scientology organization and to limit
their freedom of movement. This aims at insuring, among other things, that
events of the organization will no longer be supported by public funds. The
resolution also provides for establishing whether the Scientology
organization pursues policies directed against the free democratic basic
order. Beckstein hopes that his application will bring about combined
measures on behalf of the German states against Scientology. Furthermore,
Beckstein said that financial gain was in the forefront for the Scientology
organization, and therefore they should not be an association of legal
status.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-10>
<H1>
CMT Trade Fair ended
</H1>
The 29th international trade fair for caravans, motoring and
tourism (CMT) ended this evening. Around 230,000 people visited the largest
leisure trade fair in Europe. According to the trade-fair organizers, both
exhibitors and visitors were satisfied with the fair. Holidays in China and
Portugal, the associate countries for the CMT '97, were apparently very
popular.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-26-11>
<H1>
10,000 carnivalists meet in Ulm
</H1>
About 10,000 carnivalists from all over southern Germany and
neighbouring Switzerland met today in Ulm for the rotating meeting of the
Alemanian Jester Circle. Highlight of the meeting was the Jesters' Jumping
through downtown Ulm. Other meetings of Suabian-Alemanian Carnival guilds
took place in Hechingen and Tettnang.

