<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-1>
<H1>
Lafontaine steps down
</H1>
Dear Party Colleagues, I hereby declare my resignation from the office
of the Chair of the Social Democratic Party of Germany.  I thank you
and the members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany for the
friendly cooperation and the trust.  I wish you success in your future
work for freedom, justice and solidarity.

<P>
The first special reports came shortly before 6:00 PM.  Oskar
Lafontaine unexpectedly resigned as Finance Minister.  Government
spokesman Heye further reported that Lafontaine had also given up his
position as leader of the Social Democrats.

<P>
What prompted Lafontaine to make this surprising move is momentarily
still unclear.  As is generally know in the past there has been a
range of differences and strained relations between Schroeder and
Lafontaine.  Besides the basic differences of opinion over economic
policies, the two SPD politicians also had different views on dealing
with the PDS.  In yesterdays cabinet meeting the Chancellor rebuked
Lafontaine for allegedly false calculations of the atomic power plant
operators' reserve fund payments.  In his first comments Gerhard
Schroeder stated that he regretted Lafontaines decision and was also
surprised by it.

<P>
The leader of the Union caucus, Wolfgang Schaeuble, described the
resignation of Lafontaine as Writing on the wall for the
insubstantiality of Schroeders government.  Lafontaine apparently did
not want to be responsible for the damage the red-green coalition had
already caused in the country.

<P>
FPD leader Wolfgang Gerhardt called the resignation of Lafontaine
overdue.  He explained that now the political course also needed to be
corrected.  Lafontainess one-dimensional oriented demand politics had
come to nothing Bavarian SPD leader, Renate Schmidt, regretted
Lafontaines resignation. She also said that the resignation was
certainly not easy for Schroeders government and that it was too early
to talk about personnel alternatives.  The SPD managing committee
would confer on the situation tomorrow.

<P>
The leader of the CSU caucus, Gleuk stated that the resignation of
Lafontaine was a sign of the chaotic leadership of Chancellor
Schroeder.  Lafontaine was the first to realize the consequences of
the chancellors unbelievable leadership style.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-2>
<H1>
Government deliberates over dual citizenship
</H1>
Shortly before the deciding coalition round over the so-called dual
passport, Minister of Interior Schily took up fresh talks with the
Mainz state government over the so-called Option Model.  The red-green
government is dependent upon the votes of the social- liberal
coalition in Mainz for the voting in the upper house of parliament.
Rhineland Palatinate FDP Chair Reiner Bruederle stated that he
expected an agreement.  The point of contention for the FDP is
tolerating double citizenship for foreigners who are older than 60 or
who have lived in Germany for more than 30 years.  The questions as to
what age a foreigner must chose a citizenship is also open.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-3>
<H1>
Agreement on agriculture reform
</H1>
After three weeks of negotiations the European Union Ministers of
Agriculture have come to an agreement on the planned agriculture
reform.  They agreed to lower the prices for agriculture products,
grains and beef prices by 20% and milk prices by 15%.  The president
of the German Farmers' Association, Gerd Sonnleiter rejected these
plans stating, his group demanded compensation, for example in the
social sector.  These high costs burdened their family businesses and
the group attempted to get compensation from the new government, so
that the havoc in agriculture would not become too great.  It would
become havoc if the farmers took on national burdens like tax reform
or an environmental tax.  If they totaled up the agenda now the cup
would be full with what has befallen the farmers and what was expected
of them.  State Premier Stoiber stated the farmers had to pay the
check.  According to Stoiber, as a result of the decisions of the
EU-Agriculture Ministers, in Bavaria alone between 10,000 and 15,000
farms would have to close-up shop.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-4>
<H1>
Wiesheu apologizes for Nazi comparison
</H1>
The Bavarian Agriculture Minister apologized to Chancellor Schroeder
for making a connection between Bonns nuclear policy and the Third
Reich.  He stated on Bavarian Radio that such a comparison had never
been his intention.  In Brussels, Bavaria's State Premier expressed
his approval of his ministers apology, stating, he assumed that Mr.
Wiesheu had, with his public apology and his personal explanation to
the Chancellor, taken care of his mistake.  The minister went on to
say that, of course one is not permitted to say everything, there is
no question of that, but in political discussions again and again
there are mistakes of one kind or another or perhaps also bad
mistakes.  But the minister believes it also had to be recognized when
someone immediately admitted that he had made a mistake and
apologizes.  A person can do no more and one should accept it.
Wiesheu had declared in an interview about Bonns nuclear politics that
there had already been someone in Germany who had wanted final
solutions to questions and after 12 years he had come to an end.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-5>
<H1>
Bavaria considers importation of nuclear power
</H1>
After an eventual withdrawal from nuclear energy Bavaria wants to
import nuclear power from other countries, according to State Chancery
Leader Huber.  He offered as a basis for this policy that the economic
recovery in the Free State (Bavaria) was closely tied to inexpensive
nuclear power.  For that reason imports, from France for example were
being considered.  The closing of nuclear power plants would have
greater impact in Bavaria than in other states, since there in
comparison to other states there would not be sufficient coal powered
plants available.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-6>
<H1>
Bavaria wants driving bans in criminal cases
</H1>
Criminals in Bavaria must soon reckon with loss of their drivers
license even when nooffences in the traffic area are involved.  The
justice committee of the state parliament is considering similar bills
from the CSU and SPD.  The two parties offered as a basis for their
proposals that fines had only limited effect, imprisonment on the
other hand, would, in many cases, be inappropriate.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-11-7>
<H1>
Avalanche kills three
</H1>
In Roiental in Southern Tyrol near the Austrian border an avalanche
went off around 1:00 PM killing three German vacationers.  According
to first reports the dead were two women and one man.  They were
apparently skiing outside of the marked runs.

