<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-1>
<H1>
Preliminary proceedings against Kohl instigated
</H1>
The Public Prosecutor's Office has instigated preliminary proceedings
against former Chancellor, and honorary chairman of the CDU, Helmut Kohl. As
the Chief Public Prosecutor, Dietrich Irsfeld, said today in Bonn, Kohl is
under suspicion of criminal disloyalty against the CDU. The proceedings are
intended to clarify the matter, and do not constitute formal a accusation.
Kohl received the news with regret. In a statement, he promised to support
the investigation. Kohl has admitted to accepting cash donations worth 2
million D-Marks between 1993 and 1998, and failing to declare them.
Bundestag President Wolfgang Thierse spoke of a deep cut in the history of
the Federal Republic, saying Kohl had violated his oath of office. CDU
leader Wolfgang Schaeuble has said that he does not expect the investigation
to result in a finding of criminal wrong-doing.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-2>
<H1>
North Rhine-Westphalia proceeds against own finance minister
</H1>
The Public Prosecutor's Office in Duesseldorf has instigated preliminary
proceedings against North Rhine-Westphalia's finance minister, Heinz
Schleusser. As the authorities said today, Schleusser is under suspicion of
betraying official secrets. There will now be an investigation into whether
Schleusser warned the Westdeutsche Landesbank (West/LB) of an impending
search of their premises in 1996. Early in September of that year, the
bank's files had been examined, on suspicion of aiding customers in avoiding
paying taxes. Schleusser today repeated his rejection of the accusations.
The Opposition CDU again demanded of state Premier Wolfgang Clement that he
suspend the finance minister until the matter has been cleared up.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-3>
<H1>
Continued discussion of pensions at 60
</H1>
The dispute between labour unions over the idea of being able to draw a
pension as of the age of 60 continues today. The spokesman for the IG Metall
union, Claus Eilrich, rejected a compromise suggested by the Mining, Energy,
and Chemistry union. Speaking in Frankfurt, Eilrich said for his union,
nothing short of a full pension at 60 would be considered.. He also accused
the employers of blockading progress. The chairman of the union for Mining,
Chemistry, and Energy, Hubertus Schmoldt , was agitating yesterday for a
retirement age of 62 or 63 years, thus supporting a move by the Public
Sector and Transportation union boss, Herbert Mai. Two CDU politicians,
Friedhelm Ost and Meinolf Michels, suggested allowing employees to retire
after paying 45 years' worth of contributions into the system, with no
penalty (for early retirement). They said that anyone who spent that long
working deserved to retire.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-4>
<H1>
Schroeder and Chirac call for rapprochement with Serbia
</H1>
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and French President Jacques Chirac have
underlined their willingness to effect a rapprochement with Serbia. In a New
Year's appeal, the two leaders said that, together with other EU partners,
they were ready to open a new chapter in their relationship with Belgrade.
However, they added, minimum standards would have to be met - including
democracy, free elections, and respect for human rights. Schroeder and
Chirac wrote that it was not in the interests of anyone in Europe to have an
isolated Serbia.
Their appeal is to be published in a Belgrade newspaper.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-5>
<H1>
Avalanche in Galtuer: details still unclear
</H1>
One day after a fatal avalanche by Galtuer, in the Austrian state of Tyrol,
the German Alpine Association has released its account of the tragedy. A
spokesman for the association, speaking in Munich, said that a group of 16
alpinists set out on a tour early yesterday morning in conditions of good
visibility and no wind; there was no expectation of a possible avalanche.
The group was also accompanied by highly-qualified mountain guides. On their
return, about 200 metres before their shelter, a massive sheet of snow
detached from the mountain face and came down over them.
The head of the tourism department for Galtuer, Gerhard Walter, on the other
hand, has said that the possibility of an avalanche was known to the
association members. The commission responsible for alpine safety had closed
the valley below the possible avalanche on December 27.
Nine people died in the avalanche, one injured survivor was taken to
hospital. Rescuers transported the 31 further members of the association,
who had intended to celebrate New Year's Eve in the mountain hut, back to
Galtuer, 15 kilometres away.
The Public Prosecutor's Office in Innsbruck has begun an investigation.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-29-6>
<H1>
Newspaper report: Dregger seeks pardon for former SS-Nazi
</H1>
According to the Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper, CDU politician Alfred
Dregger is actively supporting a plea to pardon a former member of the Nazi
SS, Erich Priebke, recently sentenced to life in prison in Italy. According
to the report, Dregger wrote to Italian President Carlo Ciampi in September,
asking for a presidential pardon for Priebke, who, the letter said, had
"become an object of irreconcilable revenge".

