<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-1>
<H1>
Unemployed rate shows slight increase for July
</H1>
For the first time since January, the unemployment rate
in Germany showed a slight increase. In July, 4,130,000
persons declared themselves unemployed before labor offices,
an increase of roughly 59,000 over June. In consequence, the
rate went up from 10.5% to 10.7%. Vice President Leven of the
Federal Labor Institute said: "This increase is less than
50% of the average over the last several years. This clearly shows it
to be a seasonal variance. As always happens in July, dismissals
related to quarter closing and vacation time
as well as the conclusion of apprenticeship terms brought
about a transitory rise in unemployment." The DGB [National
Federation of Trade Unions] could not detect any positive
development in recent figures, while Minister for Economy
Rexrodt talks of a positive trend reversal. Seasonally adjusted,
the Nuremberg figures show - in Rexrodt's opinion - an
improving employment situation. The probability for accelerated
reduction of unemployment figures is increasing, said Rexrodt.
CDU General Secretary Peter Hintze said the number of unemployed
was almost a quarter of a million below last year's, and for the
first time in 6 years the number of people employed was rising
in the old states. For the Eastern states, Hintze predicted a
similar development. Contrary to this opinion, SPD's social area
specialist Ottmar Schreiner does not see anything like a trend
reversal: "Unemployment continues on a high level. Even
Mr. Jagoda, who is a real expert on this, said he was not
using the word "trend reversal". We cannot talk of a trend
reversal before a continuous and perceptible reduction
of unemployment occurs - and this is certainly not the case
right now." Schreiner accused the Bonn government parties of
spending money on make-work projects as an electioneering trick.
This accusation was refuted by CSU Bundestag fraction. They say
the number of participants in make-work projects was but
slightly above last year's and the employment level increase
was genuine.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-2>
<H1>
OECD expects 2.75% economic growth for Germany
</H1>
The Organization for Economical Cooperation and Development,
OECD, expects the German economy to grow by 2.75% along this
year. For 1999, they prognosticate a 3% increase. This estimate
is contained in the OECD report on Germany published today.
This increase is not considered to be sufficient for a
clearly noticeable reduction of unemployment. OECD
prognosticates a yearly average of 4.4 million unemployed.
Minister for Finance Weigel was commended for a substantial
reduction of federal spending last year, attaining the
Maastricht criteria for participation in the Euro prgram.
On the other hand, the OECD experts doubt that within
the present framework of economy and reforms the federal
government will succeed in reducing tax levels and keep
federal spending low at the same time.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-3>
<H1>
DGB: 60,000 adolescents lack apprenticeship positions
</H1>
The German federation of Trade Unions DGB fears that 60,000
youngsters will not attain apprenticeship positions
this year. To bridge the gap, DGB demands tax measures
favoring companies that provide apprenticeship positions
at the cost of those who do not. DGB is skeptical about
government, industry and profession claims that the apprenticeship
situation had shown considerable improvement.
DGB leadership member Regina Koerner told press reporters in
Duesseldorf today that while there was a slight improvement
in industrial companies, in the professions there were 20%
less apprenticeship positions than last year. Public Service
was increasing its apprenticeship positions by a miserable
40 countrywide. In her judgment, "The government's and economic
circles' optimism obviously has just one foundation: the
upcoming elections. The positive development expected in
view of increased economic growth have still to make themselves
felt, both in regard to apprenticeship positions and
employment." Short of fiscal measures, to wit, a tax for
creating apprenticeship positions, nothing will change. Just
appeals to and financial promises in the direction of the
economic community are not sufficient

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-4>
<H1>
Riester: Xmas bonus to be invested towards old age pensions
</H1>
SPD minister for labor designate Riester proposed that employees
invest their Xmas bonuses towards old age pensions. They should
be freed from all taxes and social emoluments, Riester said in
an interview to Berlin's daily "Berliner Zeitung". The necessary
leeway would have to be provided by tax reform measures.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-5>
<H1>
Investigations in Berlin
</H1>
Two days after a residential building collapsed in Steglitz
district, the debris has been removed down to the basement.
The search for clues is now beginning. Part of the gas
installation was isolated. Experts examined other tubing
during this afternoon. A gas explosion has in all probability
caused the collapse. There were 21 persons living in the
4-story building. Seven of them died in the accident.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-6>
<H1>
Suessmuth pleads with Zeman
</H1>
Bundestag president Rita Suessmuth appealed to Czech
premier Zeman to withdraw his conntroversial comments
on ethnic Germans from the Sudeten region. At the same
time, Suessmuth came out against CSU's demand for a
temporary shelving of talks between the European and
the Czech Republic about the latter's admission to the Union.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-06-7>
<H1>
Ministry of Defense refutes FDP demands
</H1>
The federal defense ministry refuted as unfounded demands made
by FDP general secretary Guido Westerwelle for a reform of
the German armed forces. A spokesman said that the structure
and duration of the general draft were in accord with
upcoming security challenges within the NATO structure.

