<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-1>
<H1>
SPD plans changing of the guard in 1998
</H1>
The SPD wants to win the election for Federal Chancellor in 1998. Lafontaine,
head of the SPD, outlined the strategy in a midterm legislative report.
According to Lafontaine, the government under Chancellor Kohl can no longer
claim responsibility for the progress made in Germany. Lafontaine, Saarland
State Premier, has not yet announced the SPDs candidate for chancellor,
however.  "Weve said all were going to say about this and, as we said, when
everythings said and done, it will be said." With this statement, Lafontaine
avoided revealing any details about his partys candidate for Chancellor or
the selection process. Even Scharping, SPD fraction leader, had little to
say. Schroeder, State Premier of Lower Saxony, announced his interest in
entering the race on behalf of the SPD again last week. He was not present
today as Lafontaine and Scharping presented their midterm report in Bonn.
They both stressed once more that the SPD will be the strongest party in two
years. Neither one left the coalition alone today, of course. "Kohls
government has not succeeded in keeping Germany together or facilitating the
integration we need to maintain social peace. Kohls government has become an
increasing threat to the social fabric and social tranquility in Germany over
the past two years."
The SPD claims to have overcome their difficulties of the past years.
Lafontaine stated that alternative parties must now work to improve their
image.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-2>
<H1>
Increase in child benefit guaranteed
</H1>
The 220 DM increase in the child benefit beginning January 1 is
guaranteed, while property tax shall be eliminated. This is the result of the
summit meeting between the coalition and the SPD yesterday evening in Bonn.
In addition, the solidarity tax will be decreased gradually as planned. It
has not been determined, however, how the 9 billion DM revenue shortfall from
the states due to elimination of the property tax will be financed. There is
agreement that the realty transfer tax should be increased. Although both
parties stuck to their positions during the negotiations, they agreed on the
procedure for deliberating on the remaining tax laws for 1997. Consensus may
be reached on reforming the inheritance tax. Corporate tax reform, on the
other hand, may be delayed another year or two.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-3>
<H1>
President Herzog calls for moderation
</H1>
President Herzog has called for moderation in the disagreement
over Bonns proposed savings package. He asked the unions to participate in
the restructuring of the social state. At the Federal Conference of the
German Employees Union (DAG), Herzog said the parties in the wage
negotiations and the state would have to set their negotiations aside in
favor of creating work for the unemployed. The unemployment rate is
scandously high, he stated. Herzog also appealed to leaders of corporations
to replace positions vacated due to layoffs with new positions using the
benefit contributions paid by the employers.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-4>
<H1>
Issen reelected Chairman of German Employees Union (DAG)
</H1>
Roland Issen shall remain the Chairman of the German Employees Union (DAG)
for another five years.  Issen was reelected in Magdeburg by a large
majority. Having led the DAG for nine years, Issen now wants to ensure
acceptable working conditions for his clients - German employees - in light
of the globalization of business and shift of focus to Europe. Another goal
in the coming years: Issen wants the DAG, as the premier union, to work
hand-in-hand with the National Trade Union Federation (DGB) to set the stage
for further actions. He is not considering merging with the massive DGB.
Rather, he intends to further extend the cooperation agreements between the
two DGB unions - the Union for Public Service and Transportation (OeTV) and
the Union for Trade, Bank and Insurance Employees (HBV). Issen, 58, has
already announced that this will be his last term in office.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-5>
<H1>
Stuttgart regional government approves draft of 1997 budget
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg regional government has approved the draft
of the 1997 budget. The council of ministers also agreed to another general
spending freeze. Financial Minister Mayer-Vorfelder explained that fewer tax
revenues may be taken in this year than planned. The 1997 regional budget
includes numerous cuts. DM 148 million will be saved alone in personnel
expenses. The SPD opposition in the Stuttgart state assembly mainly
criticized the planned cuts in educational benefits.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-6>
<H1>
Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics (IG Metall) in Baden-Wuerttemberg supports wage demands
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg branch of the Union for
Metal, Engineering and Electronics (IG Metall) has spoken out in support of
the 5 percent wage increase demanded by the Board of the National Trade Union
Federation. Part of this increase would be used to promote job security. This
decision was reached today by the Wage Commission of Southwest IG Metall. The
committee also expressed its support for continuing talks between employers
and metal industry unions on sick pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-7>
<H1>
Trial of suspected PKK leaders
</H1>
One of the accused sharply criticized the German government in the
trial of three suspected leaders of the outlawed Kurdish Workers Party
(PKK). Bonn supported Turkey in the war against the Kurds, stated the 33-year
old to the Bavarian Higher Regional Court in Munich. The Kurd and the other
two accused, 40 and 28 years old, are accused by Federal Prosecutors Office
of belonging to a terrorist organization. They are accused of responsibility
for numerous arson attacks on Turkish establishments while holding regional
PKK leadership positions in Munich, Nuremberg and Freiburg.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-8>
<H1>
Sket files for bankruptcy
</H1>
Bankruptcy proceedings have opened against Sket, once the largest machinery
manufacturer in East Germany. The Magdeburg District Court ordered
sequestration this afternoon, according to a spokeswoman for the court.
Magdeburg attorney Wutzke was appointed to continue current business
operations. The Sket Employee Relations Board announced that legal means are
being inspected. Chairman of the Employee Relations Board, Oelze, expressed
his doubt that the company is insolvent or overextended. Both company
management and BVS, the trustee, believe the bankruptcy filing is an
opportunity for a new beginning, however. Kirchgaesser, the General Manager,
claimed in Berlin that Sket is solvent for the most part.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-15-9>
<H1>
Cities and districts can approve shopping hours on 4 Sundays per year
</H1>
Cities and districts can approve shopping hours on 4 Sundays per
city district and year in the future as well, reported Baden-Wuerttemburg
Social Minister Vetter. Bread and pastry shops in the region have free reign
to determine their 3-hour business days on Sundays and holidays. According to
the new shop closing law, these hours must fall between 7:00 a.m. and 5:30
p.m.

