<DOC de-news-1998-09-11-1>
<H1>
Introduction of Euro (common European currency) right on track
</H1>
That's what the head of the European Central Bank, Mr Duisenberg, said
after a meeting of the bank in Frankfurt, and at the beginning of next year,
the production of new coins and banknotes would start for good as well.
Mr Duisenberg, however, warned against a further slide of the US dollar, as
this could create real problems for the European economy. According to the
European Central Bank, both the Russian and the Asian crisis would have some
influence on the global economy this year, though he would not be drawn on
the extent when asked by journalists in Frankfurt on Friday night. The
Central European Bank is pretty certain that Russia's and Asia's influence
would be comparatively low for the future common currency countries, mainly
due to the fact that economic relations between them and the two problem
areas were relatively insignificant. Though European cash will not be used
until 2002, the Central European Bank will start printing banknotes very
soon. According to Mr Duisenberg, the new banknotes will not display any
national emblems - as opposed to the new coins.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-11-2>
<H1>
Volkswagen sets up support-fund for former forced labourers
</H1>
The purpose of this strategy was to preempt any looming court action in this
matter. The fund will get 20 million marks, to be managed independently.
Spokes-person Klaus Kocks said: "To our knowledge, so far, this amount is
sufficient." He would not rule out any top-up, in case it wasn't. Damages
would be paid to former forced labourers as early as this year. A committee
will decide who gets what, with a minimum of red tape involved. Volkswagen
also has earmarked another 25 million marks for humanitarian aid to the
forced labourers' countries of origin.

<P>
From 1944 to 1945, approximately 15,000 labourers were forced to work in
Wolfsburg, at Volkswagen. 1,500 of them were Jews. It is unknown how many
of them are still alive.

<P>
In spite of the fund having been set up, former forced labourers will not
retract their court actions, as lawyer Witti, from Munich, counsel for many
holocaust-survivors, confirmed on German television ZDF. The fund's pay-out
would amount to only 1,000 marks per forced labourer, and apart from that,
the fund had been set up without any involvement by the forced labourers.
Setting up the fund, however, would mean that Volkswagen acknowledged their
grievances, at least in part. Mr Witti added: "A very cunning try, to buy
us out. That's exactly how the Swiss banks did it: They also set up a
250 million fund, and then finally called after having raised the stakes to
1.25 billion marks. We'll see Volkswagen in court."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-11-3>
<H1>
Guidelines for doctor-assisted euthanasia drafted
</H1>
Does a GP have to keep someone alive under all circumstances, even when the
terminally ill patient is keen to die? That has been a contentious issue for
a long time, and will not be resolved for a while. It took the Federal
Association of Medical Practitioners (Bundesaerztekammer) more than a year
to pass a draft, and even that doesn't answer many questions, and immediately
caused an uproar.

<P>
German GPs think that under certain circumstances it is okay to stop
treating terminally ill patients, though they continue to be strictly
against giving a helping hand (active euthanasia). The German Association
for the Terminally Ill reacted to this expressing serious regret and concern.
Mr Rupert Ruecker, spokes-person for the Initiative for the Protection
of Human Life, thinks that the draft has been too vague. For example,
it would not spell out clearly  when a patient can be assumed to have the
will to terminate life-support measures. The Federal Association of General
Practitioners refuted this. If the patient does not clearly state that
he/she wants treatment to be stopped, doctors would have to ascertain
conscientiously what the patient wants, and, if need be, get the Family
Court involved.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-11-4>
<H1>
German Railways ground tilting trains for the time being
</H1>
This was done to comply with a ruling by the Railways Transport Office
(responsible for safety and related matters). The office claimed that they
had found serious deficiencies in the traction-units of these trains.
Railways think that the manufacturers of the waggons are to blame. Tilting
trains are used predominantly in the western and southwestern parts of the
country. As replacement trains (who don't tilt) have to slow down in bends,
there will be delays

