<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-1>
<H1>
Kinkel welcomes Rafsandshani's remarks
</H1>
German Foreign Minister Kinkel welcomed Iranian President Rafsandshani' s
latest remarks about the relationship between Bonn and Teheran. Kinkel
told the paper 'Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung' that the remarks contribute
to avoiding further escalation. The Foreign Minister opposes braking off
diplomatic relations. Kinkel said that it is not a good idea to destroy
in rough times something that took great effort to build. Rafsandshani
had supported a continuation of contacts during Friday prayers in
Teheran.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-2>
<H1>
CSU convention continues
</H1>
The sixtieth convention of the Christian-Social Union continued in
Munich with a programmatic speech by party leader Waigel. As guest
speaker, German Chancellor Kohl also addressed the delegates. Yesterday,
Waigel and State Premier Stoiber made a point of showing unity in
European policy. They attacked the Social Democratic Party heavily and
declared that they want to continue the Bonn governing coalition beyond
the election year 1998. The convention voted on a paper worked out by
Waigel and Stoiber about local policy of the European Union, demanding
that authority be given back from Brussels to the member states.
<P>
Concluding the convention, German Chancellor Kohl and the CSU party
leader demanded more commitment from industry for job creation. Kohl
said, now that politicians have improved the prevailing conditions, it
is the employers' turn to do their part. Waigel encouraged employers to
decide for investments in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-3>
<H1>
Lafontaine demands more initiative in education policy
</H1>
Two days before the beginning of the SPD special convention on 'Youth,
Career, Future' in Cologne, party leader Lafontaine has demanded more
initiatives in education policy. Research and training have always been
strong sides of Germany, Lafontaine today told the radio station
'Deutschlandradio'. In the past years, though, the government kept
cutting spending in that area. The SPD party leader announced that the
convention will debate a fee for businesses that do not train
apprentices. If there is not a consensus within the industry to halt the
decline of trainee posts, the government will have to step in to save
the dual education system, Lafontaine said.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-4>
<H1>
Federation of German Industry President rejects criticism by Union parties
</H1>
The President of the Federation of German Industry Henkel rejected
criticism by leading CDU/CSU politicians saying that the industry is not
creating enough jobs. Given raising unemployment numbers, the government
has its back to the wall and is looking for a scapegoat, Henkel told the
magazine 'Focus'. The criticism of the Union parties reflects the bad
conscience that investment conditions have not been improved enough to
support the creation of new jobs, the Federation President said.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-5>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg's SPD passes a vote of confidence in Maurer
</H1>
The Executive Board of Baden-Wuerttemberg's SPD has passed a
vote of confidence in their Chairman Maurer. After five hours of debate,
the committee rejected the demand that Maurer resign in a vote of 19:2.
Maurer has been criticized in the past few days mainly because of the
defeat of SPD candidate Brechtgen in the Stuttgart Mayoral election.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-6>
<H1>
Rallies against third stage of health reform
</H1>
In Baden-Wuerttemberg, about 12,000 people rallied against
the third stage of the health reform today. Alone in Freiburg, more than
4000 people followed the appeal of the associations of non-medical
practitioners. Patients, handicapped, sick and elderly people as well as
insurance clients walked together with physical therapists, massage
therapists and speech therapists through the inner cities of Stuttgart,
Karlsruhe, Heidelberg, Mannheim, Weinheim and Ulm. With whistles and
posters they warned that a two-class health system will make medicaments
a luxury item. The third stage of the health reform plans to make
mandatory benefits voluntary. That means, regulated health insurances
will be able to decide whether they want to pay partly or not at all.
Because the insurances are likely to cut benefits drastically, the
Chairman of the Association Physical Therapy, Hans Herzog, accused
German Minister of Health, Seehofer, of an unsuccessful health policy.
During the final rally in Stuttgart Herzog said, chronically ill people
have to pay the bill. Also, the existence of most of the 25,000
practices for physical therapy is endangered. The German Association for
Physical Therapy is demanding a voice in the debates in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-7>
<H1>
Sager repeats support for extension of IFOR mission in Bosnia
</H1>
Retiring speaker of the Executive Board of the Green Party, Sager, has
repeated her support for an extension of the IFOR mission in Bosnia.
Otherwise the danger of war would grow again. If the mission is not
extended, it could be interpreted as an indication that the political
guarantee forces are withdrawing from Bosnia, Ms. Sager explained to the
paper 'Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung'. About the fact that some
members of the Green Party are against German participation, she said
that a part of the left wing in Bonn has moved away from the decision of
the party convention in Bremen. During that convention one year ago, the
left wing had won a vote against the realist wing by a small margin to
not support sending German troops to Bosnia. Ms. Sager stressed that now
the left wing of the faction has to explain their change of mind to
party members. The realist wing has not changed its position. The
fraction should try to formulate a common position by December when the
Bundestag (Upper House) will decide about German participation in an
IFOR follow up mission.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-8>
<H1>
Arrest warrant for Seidler lifted
</H1>
The arrest warrant for suspected RAF member Seidler has been lifted. The
Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in Karlsruhe said last night that
after an interview with the 38-year old suspect, there is no immediate
suspicion any more. Seidler had been accused of having participated in
the assassination attempt on the Chairman of the Board of Directors of
Deutsche Bank, Herrhausen. Seidler denies his participation as well as
membership in the terrorist Red Army Fraction. According to his own
words, he was living in Lebanon at the time of the attempted murder. He
has been wanted for several years. Yesterday Seidler gave himself up to
the Public Prosecutor's Office.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-23-9>
<H1>
EU Currency Committee discusses Italian Lira
</H1>
The Currency Committee of the European Union met in the afternoon to
discuss the Italian Lira. Italy had requested that the Lira be accepted
again in the exchange rate mechanism of the European currency system. At
least two years of membership are prerequisite for participation in the
planned currency union. The Lira had been taken out of the mechanism in
1992 after turbulences.

