<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-1>
<H1>
CDU concludes closed meeting
</H1>
Wolfgang Schaeuble, Chairman of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU)
party and parliamentary fraction, has confirmed that his party rejects dual
citizenship. Concluding a two day closed meeting of the CDU party executive
in Koenigswinter near Bonn, Mr. Schaeuble said that the dual citizenship
changes planned by the government where it would be accepted as the norm
will impede the integration of foreign citizens. In the opinion of the CDU,
it is necessary to restrict immigration, but on the other hand, the Union
wants to make it easier to attain German citizenship. Mr. Schaeuble
announced a proposition by the CDU and the Christian Social Union (CSU)
regarding citizenship in the near future. Yesterday [Saturday], the CDU
party executive had voted for acceptance of a signature campaign against
dual citizenship drafted together with the CSU, with only three opposing
votes. Edmund Stoiber, Bavaria's State Premier,  demanded that care be
taken when formulating the document to exclude radical voices who are
opposed to integration. In Mr. Stoiber's opinion, German passports should
not be handed out without integration and unless the old citizenship has
been given up.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-2>
<H1>
Bavarian SPD MP's comment on European politics
</H1>
Bavarian Social Democratic Party (SPD) members of parliament in the
German lower house (Bundestag) have continued their closed session in
Irrsee (Swabia) with a discussion on European politics. Guenter Verheugen,
State Minister of External Affairs, reported on "Agenda 2000". This reform
package of the European Union is scheduled to be voted on during the German
EU presidentship. The five Bavarian SPD members of the European Parliament
announced during the conference in Irrsee that they would vote for the
dismissal of the EU commission in the European Parliament next Thursday.
The EU Parliament had not approved the budget at the end of December
because of a whole series of irregularities. Gerhard Schmidt, a member of
the EU Parliament, declared that Brussels has to take political
responsibility for sloppiness and favouritism. The mistakes of the two EU
Commissioners that have come to light show a grave lack of respect for the
EU Parliament and of the Cabinet. On Thursday, the European Parliament will
decide on a vote of confidence for the EU Commission. The Bavarian MP's
passed a resolution that demands better ways of preventing fraud and
corruption in the EU. They resolved that Europol has to be extended to be a
European police and be used in this area as well.

<P>
Ludwig Stiegler, chairman of Bavarian SPD MP's, has concluded that the
closed session conference of his party in Irrsee was successful. Unlike the
CSU in Kreuth, the SPD managed to talk constructively about politically
challenging subjects. According to Mr. Stiegler, the most important goal of
the state group is to challenge the CSU's claim to be the sole
representative of Bavarian interests in Bonn. During their session, the 34
Bavarian MP's also demanded improvements government policy. For example,
they demanded changes in the planned regulations regarding 620 mark jobs.
Before this, Mr. Verheugen, had warned against politically weakening the EU
Commission and that the German government does not want to work with a lame
duck Commission.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-3>
<H1>
SPD founds work group against co-operation with PDS
</H1>
Social Democrats from East Germany have founded a work
group directed against co-operation with the Party of Democratic Socialism
(PDS). A declaration of the group "New Centre", calls on the SPD leadership
to keep their distance from the PDS and critically observe the co-operation
with the PDS in Magdeburg and Schwerin. In addition, an amnesty for
injustice in the former East Germany was decisively rejected .

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-4>
<H1>
Green Party supports higher mineral oil tax
</H1>
The Green Party has stated its support of a higher mineral oil tax.
Gunda Roestel, spokesperson for the Board of Directors of the Green Party,
pointed out that mineral oil prices have sunk. Therefore, Ms. Roestel
continued, there is room for a tax increase beyond the six pfennigs
originally agreed upon. Because of the price drop in crude oil prices,
higher oil taxes are not going to hurt anybody, she said So far the Greens
have proposed increasing mineral oil taxes by six pfennigs on April 1. Ms.
Roestel also rejected plans of German Minister of Finance, Oskar
Lafontaine, to cut 300 million marks of support for alternative energies.
She threatened that this calls the coalition agreement in question.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-5>
<H1>
Thierse against amnesty for former East German perpetrators
</H1>
Wolfgang Thierse, President of the Bundestag, has rejected the
demand of some East German politicians to grant amnesty to former East
German perpetrators. Such an amnesty, Mr. Thierse said, would be only be an
incorrect signal to criminals and not a positive to East Germans. This
would not advance inner unity. He said that amnesty for East German
officials would perhaps help Egon Krenz, the last East German leader  whose
indictment is not yet final, but that a "Lex Krenz" is not worth the
trouble.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-6>
<H1>
Union of Civil Servants reconfirms demand of five percent
</H1>
Bad Kissingen. The German Union of Civil Servants has confirmed its demand
for a five percent increase. Mr. Geier, President of the Union, said in an
interview, federal, state and local authorities have to stop cutting jobs
and reinstate salaries of employees waiting to become permanent civil
servants that have been cut. Mr. Schily, German Minister of the Interior,
had warned yesterday of exaggerated demands during the impeding round of
collective bargaining in civil service. Exaggerated demands, Mr. Schily
said, endanger jobs. The Union of Civil Servants starts its traditional
work conference on union politics tonight [Sunday] in Bad Kissingen. One of
the expected guests is the Minister of the Interior.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-7>
<H1>
Commemorating deaths of Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht
</H1>
Several thousand people in Berlin commemorated the murder of the
socialists Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht 80 years ago. At the memorial
site of the socialists in Berlin-Friedrichsfelde, PDS politicians Gysi,
Bisky and Modrow laid wreaths.  The PDS had expected up to 100,000
participants at the event that they had organised.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-8>
<H1>
Use of mobile phones on aeroplanes to become punishable
</H1>
Owners of mobile phones who make calls on flights with German
airlines risk up to two years in prison in the future. According to the
news magazine "Focus", a new Bonn law plans to make the use of mobile
telephones on aeroplanes illegal starting March 1. Passengers who refuse to
honour the law can be reported to the police and prosecuted. In addition to
fines, up to two years of imprisonment are possible punishments. So far,
passengers who refused to turn off their mobile phones could only be sent
off the aeroplane.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-9>
<H1>
Pallas clean-up concluded
</H1>
Two and a half months after the accident of the freighter Pallas near
the North Sea Island Amrum, clean-up work of the wreck has been concluded.
Claudia Fisse, spokesperson for Schleswig-Holstein's Ministry of the
Environment, reported that the pumping island Barbara has been unhooked.
With the its assistance the oil had been pumped off the ship. According to
an estimate of the Kiel Ministry of the Environment, it cost more than 14
million marks to clean up the accident. 16,000 sea birds have died as a
result of the oil leak from the Pallas.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-10-10>
<H1>
Green Party demands national anti doping commissioner
</H1>
The Green Party has demanded that the government appoint a
national anti doping commissioner. Winfried Herrmann, sports and political
spokesperson for the party, reported that this could combat doping cases
which have become more and more frequent of late. In the opinion of Mr.
Herrmann, neither present controls, the legal basis nor the self control of
sports are sufficient. An anti doping commissioner could mediate between
athletes, sports associations, politics and experts, and participate in
proposals for tougher laws he said.

