<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-1>
<H1>
Tax talks between government and SPD collapse
</H1>
The talks between the ruling coalition and the SPD which were
aimed at finding a common concept for a tax reform have collapsed. The
delegations from both sides left the talks after barely one hour,
having reached no agreement. The CDU/CSU and FDP coalition now plan to
bring in a bill for the planned 1999 tax reform for its first reading
in the Bundestag on Friday; the bill has already been accepted by the
cabinet. Despite their differences on the issue, the CDU/CSU and the
SPD have agreed that the bill should be dealt with quickly and that
the Mediation Committee of the Bundestag and the Bundesrat should
start discussing the tax reform during the summer recess; the
agreement of the Bundesrat is necessary for the bill to become law. In
a separate move, the SPD plan to introduce a bill which would bring a
reduction in non-wage labour costs. The talks broke down because two
sides had different starting points; whilst the ruling coalition
insisted that the tax reform should bring a net reduction in tax, the
SPD demanded that there should be a shift from welfare contributions
to excise duty. Both sides accused the other of being responsible for
the break down in the talks. Theo Waigel, the Federal Finance
Minister, accused the SPD of not wanting a tax reform at all, but
rather just a redistribution of the tax burden. Oskar Lafontaine, the
leader of the SPD criticised the coalition, saying that they had not
been prepared to accept a partial compromise; he announced that the
SPD would vote down the law in the Bundestag. Industry organisations
were highly critical of the fact that the talks had not succeeded. The
Federation of German Industry said that many politicians did not seem
ready to accept reforms. The Council of German Chambers of Commerce
said that it was a great shock that the talks had broken down and that
this would send out a very bad signal to investors. Buendnis 90/The
Greens accused the two sides of putting electoral tactics first,
saying that they had allowed the talks to fail on purpose; on the
other hand, they were pleased that this had brought the "farce" to an
end, and said that only a 'red/green' coalition (involving Buendnis
90/The Greens and the SPD) would be able to break the impasse in the
reform process.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-2>
<H1>
EU Commission: 13 of the 15 EU countries will qualify for monetary union
</H1>
The European Commission believes that 13 of the 15 countries
in the European Union will be able to take part in monetary union from
the start. The Commission presented its spring forecast for economic
development in the EU in Brussels today. According to the report, only
Italy and Greece do not at present meet the conditions necessary for
entry into the monetary union on 1st January 1999; Germany is
projected to just exactly meet the most important criterion, which is
to do with the deficit in public spending. The budgetary figures for
this year will be the deciding ones, however, and these will only
become public next spring.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-3>
<H1>
Mediation Committee reach compromise on asylum seeker benefit cuts
</H1>
After a year's debate, the Mediation Committee of the Bundestag
and the Bundesrat has agreed on a compromise on the bill for benefit
reductions for asylum seekers. They have agreed that the levels of
benefits for refugees from civil wars, applicants for asylum and
foreign nationals with permission to stay in the country will be
reduced to 80 per cent of the normal rates; income support will be
paid for three years. The compromise must also be accepted by the
Bundestag and Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-4>
<H1>
Waigel predicts DM 10 billion tax shortfall
</H1>
Theo Waigel, the Federal Finance Minister, expects that the next
tax assessment will bring a shortfall in receipts of over DM 10
billion. He mentioned the figure at a meeting of the Bundestag's
budgetary committee. With this, the loss would be DM two billion more
than the government had estimated would be necessary if the criteria
for monetary union are to be met, but the figure of DM 20 Billion,
which had been predicted by the economic research institutes, was far
too high. Waigel rejected the call from the SPD for a supplementary
budget.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-5>
<H1>
Bill for protection of non-smokers is defeated
</H1>
A bill for the protection of non-smokers, brought in by deputies
from the CDU/CSU and the SPD, has been rejected by the agriculture
committee. A spokesman from the CDU said that the majority only
supported the voluntary measures against smoking in the workplace, in
public buildings and in public transport.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-6>
<H1>
Long jail sentences for neo-nazi skinheads
</H1>
Two neo-nazi skinheads have been given long jail sentences
for a brutal attack which they carried out on three Italian
construction workers. One of their victims from the attack, which
occurred in Trebin in Brandenburg last autumn, was so badly injured
that he has been left physically and mentally disabled. The court
found the two defendants guilty of attempted joint murder and
pronounced sentences of eight and fifteen years. The chief judge said
that the sentences were meant to send out a signal against the
increase in violence and hostility towards foreigners. The judge said
"we've had enough!".

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-7>
<H1>
New charges in "Dolgenbrodt" case
</H1>
The police net in the "Dolgenbrodt" case is widening
out. Four and a half years after the arson attack on the asylum
seekers' hostel in the village of Dolgenbrodt in Brandenburg, the
public prosecutor has brought charges against new suspects. Three
inhabitants of the village and two neo-nazis from a neighbouring town
are to face trial on charges of arson, and also of incitement and of
aiding and abetting those who carried out the attack; the public
prosecutor believes that the accused were the ringleaders in the
attack. The asylum seekers' hostel was set alight in November 1992,
shortly before 86 Africans were due to move in. One man has already
been convicted of the attack, and was given a suspended sentence at
the start of 1996.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-8>
<H1>
New shop hours law has brought no positive effects
</H1>
Both the representatives of retail trade and the
trade union 'Handel, Banken und Versicherungen' (HBV = Commerce,
Banking and Insurance) are of the opinion that the new shop hours law
has brought no positive effects. The HBV announced that, according to
a survey carried out just over a year after the introduction of the
law, it has neither increased turnover nor created any jobs. The
German Retail Trade Association said that a general improvement in the
economic situation was necessary before the new law could bring any
increase in employment, nonetheless, the old shop hours law had been
in dire need of reform.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-9>
<H1>
Arbitration in construction industry adjourned
</H1>
The arbitration in the pay dispute in the construction industry
was adjourned this evening, as expected. After discussions lasting
nine hours, the Arbitrator, Heiner Geissler, announced that they would
continue on 5th May in Frankfurt. He believes that a settlement for
the trade, which will affect 1.3 million employees, is still possible.
The trade union 'Bau, Agrar, Umwelt' (= Construction, Agriculture and
Environment) is demanding a 2.9 per cent increase in wages, whilst the
employers want to pay no salary increase and to cut the Christmas
bonus by half.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-10>
<H1>
Ban on non-reusable crockery is illegal
</H1>
The Federal Administrative Court has decided in a judgement
passed today that a restauranteur can not be forced to use only
reusable crockery if they want to set up tables for their patrons to
stand and eat at in a pedestrian precinct. The owner of a fast-food
restaurant had filed a suit against the city, because she had been
told that she could only set up the tables if she used reusable
cutlery and crockery at her restaurant. The city council said that it
had placed the condition on the restauranteur because it wanted to
avoid the unnecessary creation of rubbish.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-23-11>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg State Parliament discusses broadcasters' merger
</H1>
The State Parliament of Baden-Wuerttemberg has been
debating the planned merger of the two state broadcasters, the SDR and
SWF. The Greens criticised the treaty by which one new broadcaster
would be created, saying that it was an offence against the principle
that state broadcasters should be able to work free from state
interference, but the CDU defended the treaty, saying that it was
fitting and that it was in line with the constitution. Prime Minister
Teufel had previously said that this reorganisation of state
broadcasters in the south west should serve as a model for a general
reform of the ARD (the national network of state broadcasters). At a
meeting in Baden-Baden, the directors of the ARD had also complained
that the new treaty gave too much influence to the state governments
involved.

