<DOC de-news-1998-09-09-1>
<H1>
German aid flights to Sudan to begin
</H1>
The federal government will now begin humanitarian aid flights to Sudan,
after all, the Defence Ministry announced today following a cabinet
meeting in Bonn. Two Transall aircraft and 50 Bundeswehr soldiers will be
stationed in Sudan starting tomorrow. As of Sunday, the Bundeswehr will
take part in aid flights benefitting  those starving in the southern parts
of the country. The two planes have been marked with the United Nation's
"UN" in blue letters on a white background especially for this mission.
Originally, the aid flights were to have begun on August 21, but they were
delayed because of the American retaliatory strikes on a chemical plant
the day before. The Bundestag decided last week, with the support of every
party, to actually begin the flights as soon as possible. In Sudan, both
the government and the SPLMA rebels have agreed to allow the flights.
Current plans cal for an eight-week engagement by the Bundeswehr, with up
to four flights a day. Food and medication will be air-dropped in if
conditions should prevent landings.
According to the UN, widespread death has been averted, but more than 2.5
million people are still starving.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-09-2>
<H1>
Foreign development aid good for employment at home too
</H1>
German tax monies which flow to the Third World are of benefit to Germany
as well. Not only because 80 percent of that amount returns in the form of
contracts for German companies, but also because it demonstrably exercises
a market-opening function for the German export economy and hence creates
jobs in Germany. That is the conclusion of a study by the ifo-Institute in
Munich, presented today with some satisfaction by Development Minister
Carl Dieter Spranger (CSU). "Without bilateral development cooperation, up
to 240,000 jobs in Germany would be threatened. The employment effect of
development cooperation is thus substantially greater than was previously
supposed," he said, adding that the general assumption had been on the
order of 100,000 jobs.
The minister, who is occasionally accused of focussing too much on German
economic interests in the distribution of development funds, also
emphasized: "Our goal is the improvement of economic, social, ecological,
and political prospects of the people of Third World countries. Everything
else is icing on the cake." Spranger said that, for example, development
projects were not given funding subject to the condition that the required
materials or services be bought in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-09-3>
<H1>
Economic upswing in Germany continues
</H1>
The German economy has continued to grow during the past half-year, but by
much less over the summer than in the first three months of the year.
Economic statistics can be divisive, especially during an election
campaign. The SPD is highlighting the numbers from the Federal Statistics
Office in Wiesbaden which indicate that growth was up 4.3 percent in
January, February, and March, but only 1.7 percent in April, May, and
June. The Opposition sees this as confirmation that economic recovery in
not yet building on firm ground. Federal Economic Minister Guenter Rexrodt
(FDP), on the other hand, is emphasizing that the gross domestic product
in the first six months of 1998 was up by 2.9 percent over the same period
last year, which he considers an indication of being on the right track.
How much carrying force the much talked-about upswing actually has, and
how strongly the effects of financial crises in Asia and Russia will be
felt will only become clear at year's end, in any case - three months
after the federal election.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-09-4>
<H1>
Public health insurers criticize federal health policies
</H1>
The federal government was hit with harsh criticism of its health policies
today. Two and a half weeks before the federal election, the public health
insurance companies presented their judgement of recent reforms to the
health care system, and it was clearly negative, including calls to
rescind numerous new regulations, including the one governing the billing
of dentures.
In a joint position paper for the federal election, the management
organizations for the public health insurers, which insure about 90
percent of German citizens, accused the government of failed health care
policies. In all areas of care, they said, there continued to be excess
capacity, the reimbursement system offered false incentives, and billing
procedures lacked in transparency. They called on the next government to
rescind a series of reforms, including the typing of contribution hikes to
increased pay-outs. The boss at AOK (one of the biggest public health
insurers), Hans-Juergen Ahrends, wants the old billing procedure for
dentures restored as well: "When 30 percent of the reimbursement claim
forms are filled out wrong, one has to say that the reforms have not
worked - not for dentists, not for anyone else. Therefore, they must be
revoked. We must return to the 'benefit-in-kind principle'. Ahrends also
wants dentures excluded from public health insurance coverage for those
born after 1978.
The representatives of the insurance agencies  declined to officially
endorse the SPD, which makes the same demands in its election platform, on
the grounds that they had been agitating for these changes since before
the SPD adopted any election platform.

