<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-1>
<H1>
Reactions of shock and sadness at Princess Diana's death
</H1>
Princess Diana died on Sunday morning after a car crash as
she was being followed by Paparazzi photographers. Her millionaire
companion, Dodi Al Fayed, and their driver were also killed in the
accident. The fourth person in the car, a bodyguard, was seriously
injured. French surgeons reported that Princess Diana died at 4 a.m. from
a ruptured vein in the lung and heart failure. The doctors had battled
for two hours to save the life of the former wife of the British heir to
the throne. The accident happened at about twenty to one when Princess
Diana and her companion were travelling in a Mercedes Benz after dinner
at the Ritz Hotel. The driver had apparently been trying to get away from
photographers who had been following the car on motorcycles. The car
smashed into a pillar in a road tunnel on the bank of the river Seine
near to the Eiffel Tower. The car was totally destroyed. Police detained
seven photographers at the scene of the crash.

<P>
The death of the Princess of Wales has stunned the world and many have
expressed their shock and sadness at the news. German President Roman
Herzog wrote in a telegram of condolence that Princess Diana had won the
hearts of many people in Germany with her personal charisma, courage and
involvement in many humanitarian causes.

<P>
Buckingham Palace has released a statement saying that Queen Elizabeth
and Prince Charles were deeply shocked and distressed at the terrible
news. Charles had already broken the news to the couple's sons, Princes
William and Harry. The Prime Minister of Britain, Tony Blair, said that
the country was in a state of shock. Mr. Blair described Lady Di as
warm-hearted and caring. Mourners have been laying flowers in tribute
outside Buckingham Palace, some of them kneeling down to pray.

<P>
French President Jacques Chirac has expressed his deepest sympathy. U.S.
President Bill Clinton said he and his wife were profoundly saddened. The
United Nations said that Diana's death was a tragic loss. A spokesman for
the Secretary General of the UN paid tribute to Diana's work as an
ambassador of goodwill for the UN in the campaign against landmines.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-2>
<H1>
Herzog calls for Russia to be involved in building up Europe
</H1>
German President Roman Herzog has made a speech at the beginning of his
four-day state visit to Russia calling for Russia to be involved in
building up Europe. In his speech which was broadcast on Russian
television, he stressed that none of the great problems of the world
could be solved without Russia. Mr. Herzog continued that the two
countries should "shake hands" and that the past is over. President
Herzog is the first President of a united Germany to visit Russia. His
program includes being received by President Yeltsin as well as meeting
members of the government and parliament.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-3>
<H1>
Krenz will probably have to serve his jail sentence
</H1>
The Chief State Prosecutor of Berlin is of the opinion
that Egon Krenz, the last head of State and Party Leader of the former
East Germany, will have to  serve his jail sentence. The Higher Regional
Court of Berlin had sentenced Mr. Krenz to seven years imprisonment for
his responsibility in the deaths at the Berlin Wall. Mr. Schaefgen
said to the "Sueddeutsche" Broadcasting Corporation that he was of the
opinion that Krenz's appeal would not be successful. Mr. Schaefgen did
not foresee any danger that Mr. Krenz would be made into a martyr by
former SED officials and supporters of the former East Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-4>
<H1>
Federal budget to be additionally burdened by 20 billion marks
</H1>
Rauen, the CDU's financial expert is of the opinion that the federal
budget will be additionally burdened by about 20 billion marks. He
expects that tax revenue estimates in November will be far worse than the
last estimate in May, said Mr. Rauen to the daily newspaper "The World".
This was even worse than foreseen by the additional budget. He also
criticised Chancellor Kohl's plan to negotiate a tax reform with the SPD
which did not involve any tax increases.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-5>
<H1>
German census in 2001
</H1>
Frankfurt am Main. There will be another census in Germany in 2001,
according to the "Frankfurter Allgemeine" Sunday Newspaper. The
newspaper has substantiated this by referring to the president of the
Federal Department of Statistics as well as a letter from the Federal
Minister of the Interior. According to these sources, the Register of
Population kept by cities and municipalities will be used as a basis for
this census, rather than interviewing individuals.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-6>
<H1>
Dusseldorf: dispute on financial support for East Germany
</H1>
Guenter Rexrodt, the Federal Minister for Economics and his colleagues
from the East German states have been holding discussions in Dusseldorf
on a possible compromise in the issue of financial support for East
Germany. Mr. Rexrodt said before the meeting that he was expecting an
agreement to be reached. The federal government and the East German states
have been involved in a dispute over how much should be invested in
developing
Eastern Germany. The Bonn government plans to cut development subsidies
by a total of 709 billion marks for this and the coming year. The East
German states were not in agreement with this.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-31-7>
<H1>
Five German tourists die in plane collision
</H1>
Twelve people have been killed in a plane collision in Peru.
According to the police, two small aeroplanes had collided in mid-air.
Among the dead were two Peruvian pilots, five Italian and five German
tourists. The aeroplanes had been flying over an archaeological site
about 400 kilometres south of Lima.

