<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-1>
<H1>
Federal Government rejects criticism by "the five wise men"
</H1>
the Federal Government has rejected criticism of its tax reforms in the
fall report of "the five wise men", a committee of economic experts.
Speaking in Bonn, federal Finance Minster ,Oskar Lafontaine, said that the
experts had not taken into account that the country's finances simply
would not allow for more and quicker tax breaks for German companies.
The experts complained in their report, which was presented today, that
the planned net tax relief was too little, too late. They also said that
the plans to make up for tat loss of tax revenue elsewhere should not be
implemented as early as intended, or they would inhibit investments by the
companies.

<P>
The Central Association of German Trades criticized the plans of the
SPD-Green Coalition as being untenable. The National Union of Employees,
however, defended the concept, and said that the expert committee's
recommendations were 'off the mark', economically. The CDU/CSU's Economic
Critic, Matthias Wissmann, said that the report represented a bad grade
for the new Government.

<P>
The experts expect slower growth in 1999 - 2 percent, instead of the
current 2.75 percent. They also expect only a slight improvement in
unemployment numbers.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-2>
<H1>
Federal Cabinet: 250 soldiers to Macedonia; ministries still to Berlin
</H1>
The Federal cabinet in Bonn has decided to have 250 German soldiers take
part in the planned NATO protection force. The soldiers will be stationed
in Macedonia, with a mandate to evacuate observers from the Organization
for Security and Cooperation in Europe out of Kosovo, if it should become
necessary.
In the same meeting, Construction Minister Muentefering confirmed that
there would be delays in moving several ministries to Berlin. He also
emphasized that the government would be fully functional there in
September 1999. The budget for the move from Bonn to Berlin, at 20 billion
DM would not be exceeded, according to Muentefering; nor would the 600
million DM budget for renovations to the Reichstag building.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-3>
<H1>
Escaped convict Serow re-captured
</H1>
Hintze-kidnapper Serow, who escaped from custody on the weekend, has been
re-captured in Berlin. According to police, the 38-year-old Russian was
found in an apartment in the Prenzlauer Berg district of Berlin. Serow had
broken out of prison in Potsdam on Saturday. His disappearance was only
noticed 14 hours later.
Together with an accomplice, Serow had admitted to kidnapping Matthias
Hintze, the son of a restauranteur, and demanding 1 million DM in ransom.
Hintze suffocated in the dug-out where he was being held.
Before Serow's re-capture, Justice Minister for the state of Brandenburg,
Braeutigam, tendered his resignation as a consequence of the break-out.
The leader of the state government, Stolpe, declined the offer, and
announced in Potsdam that he still had complete confidence in Braeutigam.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-4>
<H1>
Foreign Office criticizes expulsion of German journalist from China
</H1>
The Foreign Office in Bonn has described the expulsion of the German news
correspondent Krempf (sp?) from China as a serious matter. Spokesman for
the Office, Erdmann, said that the actions of the Chinese authorities
against the journalist were completely inappropriate. Krempf, who reports
from Beijing for the Hamburg-based newsmagazine "Der Spiegel", has said
the he was told to leave the country within 48 hours, and not to return
within 5 years. He says the Chinese State security searched his office
twice, and has accused him of being in possession of secret documents.
Among other things, Krempf has published a biography of Chinese Opposition
member Wei (sp?)

<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-5>
<H1>
Pallas: efforts continue to limit damage from wrecked freighter
</H1>
Off the island of Amrum in the North Sea, the Dutch mobile oil platform
Barbera reached the wrecked freighter Pallas this afternoon. The next
step, according to Schleswig-Holstein's Ministry for the Environment, is
to anchor the platform to the seabed. It is not yet clear when workers
will be able to start pumping the 600 tonnes of crude oil out of the
Pallas, as the fire on board has still not been completely extinguished.
In a special session of the Bundestag, speakers for the CDU/CSU and the
FDP called for the resignation of Schleswig-Holstein's  Environment
Minister Stehnblock. They charged the Green politician of utter failure in
limiting the damage caused by the shipwreck.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-18-6>
<H1>
Winter weather
</H1>
Snow and ice have caused traffic problems especially in southern Germany.
Police registered 120 accidents on icy streets in Bavaria and
Baden-Wuerttemberg. Several collisions were also reported in North
Rhine-Westphalia. In Hesse and Rhineland-Palatinate, it snowed even in
low-lying areas.

Motorists in all areas of mid-range elevation are advised to equip their
vehicles for winter conditions. According to meteorologists, the frost
will continue for the next few days.

