<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-1>
<H1>
Mr Solana urges Yugoslavian government to accept G8 proposals
</H1>
NATO General Secretary Solana has asked the Yugoslavian government to accept
the G8-foreign ministers' peace proposals. Mr Solana said in a radio
interview that if Mr Milosevic had one bit of common sense left, he would
accept the peace plan; otherwise he would be forced to accept it, by military
and political measures. At the same time Mr Solana declared that he was for
an extension and reform of NATO. Responsibilities would have to be
reallocated between North America and Europe, in view of new challenges.
There already is agreement to the G8 peace plans by the Albanian government
as well as the underground Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA). In Tirana a
government spokesperson said that the plan would basically cover what his
country had wanted. A representative of the KLA welcomed any plan leading
to stability. In Washington US President Clinton explained his ideas for an
international peace corps, as proposed by the G8, meaning that it should be
similar to the SFOR-corps currently in Bosnia (where NATO is in charge, but
Russia, the Ukraine and other countries are taking part as well).

<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-2>
<H1>
NATO-bombing allegedly causes more civilian casualties
</H1>
Once again there have been civilian casualties during a NATO air-raid in
Yugoslavia, and according to Yugoslavian authorities, at least 10 people
died in Nis. Several rockets had hit the hospital and other buildings in the
city-centre causing approximately 60 casualties. NATO in Brussels said the
Alliance would look into the incident and release findings in due course.
UN General Secretary Annan appointed two special UN-envoys for the Kosovo
conflict, namely former Swedish politician Bildt and the Slovakian
foreign minister Kucan. According to the UN, no more refugees crossed the
border into Macedonia today. Sources in Skopje said that apparently Serb
troops were keeping them from leaving.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-3>
<H1>
More German soldiers to be sent to the Balkans
</H1>
Parliament (Bundestag) has agreed to send more troops to the Balkans.
A majority of 566 (to 43) voted for deploying up to 1000 more soldiers for
relief operations in Albania and Macedonia. 500 of them are to leave as
early as today. Most government as well as some opposition members of
parliament voted for the decision, only the PDS was against. Foreign Minister
Fischer said in the debate that relief and rescue organisations were unable
to cope without support by the armed forces. Defence Minister Scharping
re-emphasised that the deployment was of a purely humanitarian nature

<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-4>
<H1>
Parliament (Bundestag) passes so-called optional citizenship model
</H1>
Today parliament  (Bundestag) passed amendments to the law on citizenship.
365 members of parliament voted for the so-called optional model, proposed
by the coalition parties and the FDP. According to this model children born
in Germany (to non-German citizens) will automatically be granted German
citizenship, on top of their family's. Once they turn 23 years, they have to
decide on one of them. Also, foreigners may apply for German citizenship
after only 8 years' residence. In a fortnight the amendment will be discussed
in the Upper House (Bundesrat) and is expected to be signed into law at the
beginning of next year.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-5>
<H1>
Silent demonstration in Dresden against military actions in Kosovo
</H1>
Last night several thousand people demonstrated in Dresden for peace in the
Balkans. The silent demonstration proceeded from the ruins of the
Frauenkirche to the other bank of the river Elbe and back. Participants
carried signs pleading for "Negotiations instead of bombs". Staff of relief
agencies and the protestant church also asked for an immediate armistice.
Only dialogue and negotiations were essential for solving conflicts, not
military actions, according to an appeal published today in Stuttgart.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-07-6>
<H1>
Seasonal drop in number of unemployed
</H1>
In April the number of registered unemployed went down to 4.145 millions,
a 5-month low, viz. a decrease of more than 140,000 which caused the
unemployment rate to drop from 11.1% to 10.7%. There was, and still is, a
marked differential between East and West: East Germany's rate is 17.8%,
whereas West Germany's rate is almost half of that (9%). President of the
Federal Labour Office (Bundesanstalt fuer Arbeit) Jagoda said that this
was mainly due to seasonal factors.

