<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-1>
<H1>
Dresden Meeting of Knights' Cross Bearers Canceled
</H1>
The meeting of the Knights' Cross bearers scheduled to be held in Dresden
today, has been canceled by the War Veterans Association itself. In
official statement, the Association announced that they wanted to avoid
any controversies. Only yesterday, the Knights' Cross bearers had
received permission to hold their meeting, through a court ruling.
Immediately following the ruling, human rights groups and parties had
announced plans to stage protests against the Knights' Cross bearers'
meeting. When informed about these developments, the Bundeswehr canceled
its participation in the meeting. The Bundeswehr had originally planned
to stand guard of honor at the Dresden cemetery "Nordfriedhof." The
Knights' Cross award had been instituted in 1939 by the Nazi Regime, as a
new category of the Iron Cross. Adolf Hitler himself had selected each
recipient of the honor.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-2>
<H1>
Cashmere Hostages Still Alive?
</H1>
The prime minister of the Indian state of Cashmere has information
indicating that the four abducted tourists from Germany, Great Britain,
and the United States are still alive. Prime Minister Farhak Abdula (sp?)
announced in Sri Naga (sp?) today, that according the recent reports all
four hostages are still alive. Among them is Dirk Hasert, a German
citizen. The hostages have been held captive since July 1995 by Al Faran
(sp?) group.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-3>
<H1>
Tenth Annual "AAA" Automobile Exhibit Opens in Berlin
</H1>
The tenth annual automobile exhibit "AAA" opened its gates today in
Berlin. Merchants from eighteen countries are exhibiting cars, caravans, and
accessories. Twenty-one car models are being introduced to the German
public for the first time. Visitors have nine more days to check out the 250
exhibitors' booths. Federal minister of the economy, Rexrodt, stressed in
his speech at the opening ceremony that the German automobile industry
supported the current economic upswing, with growth rates of seven to
eight per cent. Rexrodt also voiced his reservations about a rise in
gasoline prices to five marks per liter. He explained that such a step was
not going to help solve any current problems. Rexrodt elaborated that what
was needed were incentives for the prevention of environmental strain.
One of them could be car taxation according to emissions quality.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-4>
<H1>
Geissler Calls for Increase in Value-Added Tax
</H1>
The vice chair of the CDU/CSU parliamentary fraction, Geissler, has called
for an increase in VAT by at least one percentage point. In an interview
with the newspaper "Bild am Sonntag," he explained that in order to solve
the most pressing budgetary problems, postponing the reduction in
solidarity tax was not going to be sufficient. Geissler believed that
drastic changes in financial politics were necessary, which would also
have a positive impact on the job market. The increase in VAT could be
used to finance services not covered by insurance, and thus to reduce
employers' expenses, said Geissler.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-5>
<H1>
Stoiber Criticizes Tax Politics of Liberal Parties
</H1>
Bavarian Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber has sharply criticized of the
tax politics promoted by the liberal parties. In a newspaper interview,
Stoiber said that the plans for an early reduction of the solidarity tax had
been forced upon the government by the FDP, and had never been supported
by his party. He accused the FPD of constantly calling for reductions in
state revenue and of trying to finance these cuts exclusively by reducing
the social budget. Stoiber believed that waiting times for unemployment
pay were damaging to the socialist foundation of the republic. Yesterday,
the governing coalition had resolved not to lower the solidarity tax to
6.5 per cent in 1997. Only in 1998, the tax will be reduced to 5.5 per
cent of the current income tax rate. 
<P>
In an interview with the radio
station "Deutschlandfunk," FDP Secretary General Westerwelle had
announced today that after yesterday's compromise reached by the
coalition, tax discussions were closed for the current legislature
period. Westerwelle added that in case of further gaps in the federal
budget, there would have to be budget cuts, rather than increased costs
for the citizens.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-6>
<H1>
German Conference of the "Young Union" in Goerlitz
</H1>
The youth organization of the CDU, "Young Union," continues its German
conference in Goerlitz today. The discussion this morning will focus on a
presentation by Saxon Prime Minister Biedenkopf, who is planning to speak
on the main proposal of the German conference. In it, the union's youth
membership calls for comprehensive reforms in both state and society.
Some 300 delegates are participating in the conference. They are also
planning to discuss the tax and social security system, as well as social
and environmental politics. Yesterday, the current chair of the "Young
Union," Escher, had been re-elected to office.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-7>
<H1>
Brandenburg PDS Discusses Coal Policy
</H1>
During its party conference, which opened today in Lauchhammer, the PDS in
Brandenburg is discussing the fate of the township of Hornow, which is
threatened by open-cast mining. The PDS state party board proposes that the
township, located in Sorbian (sp?) territory, is to be opened to open-cast
mining only if the economic and environmental necessity of such a step
can be proved. Opinions within the party are split as to whether the
party should support the township's struggle against the mining or the
jobs that would be created by the mining operations. The inhabitants have
been fighting to keep their community for a long time. On the other hand,
more than 1,500 miners had demonstrated to keep their jobs at the last
PDS party conference.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-8>
<H1>
Wins Exceeded Losses for Businesses in 1995
</H1>
During the last year, profits of businesses have grown at a much faster rate
than employees' salaries, reports the German Federation of Unions (DGB),
quoting from data collected by the federal office for statistics. These
numbers indicate that brut profit for companies in 1995 rose fifteen per
cent on average while net profits rose by even twenty-one per cent, as
compared to the previous year. In contrast, the income of employees grew
by only 3.6 per cent brut, and by 0.6 per cent net. DGB board member
Geuenich considered these numbers to be in stark contrast with the
employers' claim that salaries were too high. Geuenich added that in this
context, there was no reasonable explanation for the government's
continuation to grant tax breaks to businesses.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-9>
<H1>
Bergmann and Stolpe Call for Reform of Job Training Programs
</H1>
Berlin Senator of Employment Bergmann, and Brandenburg Prime Minister Stolpe
have called for a reform of job training. In a joint declaration, the two SPD
politicians pointed out that many vocational school students received only
insufficient training for their later work lives. In this context, the two
politicians recommend that the job training system be remodeled after the
experiences collected in the former GDR, where secondary schooling and job
training had been closely linked. Bergmann and Stolpe also renewed their
proposal that companies which do not train apprentices carry a portion of the
costs accrued by job training. The two politicians report that only
fourteen per cent of all industrial businesses are still offering
apprenticeship positions.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-10>
<H1>
Bolivian President Sanchez de Lozada Visits Potsdam
</H1>
During the last day of his visit to Germany, the Bolivian President
Sanchez de Lozada has visited Potsdam. Brandenburg Minister of Justice
Braeutigam welcomed the guest, and praised the president's support of
democratic reforms within his country. Braeutigam stated that the
democratic development in Bolivia constituted a parallel to the
democratic restructuring in Brandenburg and the other new states. Sanchez
de Lozada signed his name in Brandenburg's guest book and toured the
castles Sanssouci and Cecilienhof.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-11>
<H1>
German Bundespost Plans to Close 5,000 Branches Before the Year 2000
</H1>
The German Post AG plans to reduce its number of branch offices by 5,000
before the new millennium, Minister of Postal Services Boetsch announced
in an interview. However, Boetsch added, the German post was going to
continue mail deliveries on Saturdays. In this context, Boetsch defended
the plans for postage increases. The postal regulations office had
postponed a decision on the rate hikes during the past week.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-12>
<H1>
3,000 Kurds Demonstrate Peacefully in Cologne
</H1>
In Cologne, more than 3,000 Kurds from Germany and France have
demonstrated for a peaceful future for their people. The protests had
been organized by the organization Komka (sp?), which is considered
moderate. Cologne police, who have had bad experiences with violent
demonstrations of Turkish and Kurdish groups, did not have to intervene
today.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-13>
<H1>
Fiszmann Very Likely Dead
</H1>
The search for Frankfurt businessman Jakub Fiszmann was continued this
morning. Aerial photographs of the wooded area in the Taunus mountain
range were analyzed, which had been collected by Bundeswehr planes. The
area had been described by the son of the main suspect, who had testified
yesterday that his father had hidden Fiszmann there. Fiszmann had been
abducted on October 1. During the afternoon, the police announced that
Fiszmann was very likely dead. The state criminal justice office in Hesse
announced that a body which had been found today in the wooded area, was
very probably the missing Fiszmann. The body has likely been in the woods
for two weeks, which is way a definite identification will take several
days. The cause of death has not been determined, so far.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-14>
<H1>
Further Demonstrations Against Castor Transports
</H1>
Several hundred nuclear power opponents demonstrated in front of the nuclear
power plant in Neckar-Westheim today. They were protesting the planned Castor
Transports to the nuclear storage site in Gorleben, Lower Saxony. Several
transport containers have already been filled at Neckar-Westheim. Meanwhile,
Lower Saxon Prime Minister Glogowski announced that there would be no further
transports to Gorleben this year.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-15>
<H1>
Herzog Calls for Continuing Remembrance GDR Injustices
</H1>
Federal president Herzog has called for a continuing analysis
of the injustices that occurred in the former GDR. Herzog warned young
German and French reporters that if the GDR past was forgotten entirely,
then it might boomerang and become a problem again, later down the line.
Bordeaux was the last stop of Herzog's four-day long visit to France.
Since his visit was the first since the reunification, he was accompanied
by former civil rights activists Baerbel Bohley, Friedrich Schorlemmer,
and Joachim Gauck.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-16>
<H1>
Greens Admonish SPD Not to Fight About Chancellor Candidature
</H1>
The financial politics speaker of the parliamentary fraction of
Buendnis 90/The Greens, Scheel, has admonished the SPD not to waste their
chance for a change in governmental leadership in 1998 over another fight
about whom to nominate, as they did last time. In an interview with the
radio station "Sender Freies Berlin," Scheel said that the financial and
tax politics of the government had united the opposition. As an example
she listed that representatives of both fractions had reacted to the
governmental decision to postpone the reduction in solidarity tax with a
joint press conference. This was the fist time such a thing had happened,
Scheel said. She added that she hoped that the SPD would put its energy
into achieving a change in power in its preparations for the 1998
electoral campaign, rather than preoccupying itself with inner-party
struggles.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-19-17>
<H1>
Mueller-Laute Receives Nietzsche Award
</H1>
The philosopher Wolfgang Mueller-Laute has been awarded the first
Nietzsche Award of Saxony-Anhalt. The international jury announced that the
72-year-old scientist was to receive the award, which is endowed with 30,000
Marks, for his philosophical and scientific life's work. Mueller-Laute
lives in Berlin and served as the principal at the Berlin-Zehlendorf
Church University for many years. He is the editor of the complete
philosophical works of Nietzsche.

