<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-1>
<H1>
German Chancellor issues statement commemorating fall of Berlin Wall
</H1>
Eight years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, German Chancellor
Helmut Kohl has expressed acknowledgement for the East Germans. In a
statement commemorating the opening of the wall on November 9, 1989,
Chancellor Kohl stressed that the people in Eastern Germany have accepted
the challenge and have worked hard. The Chancellor said this date marked
an epochal transition overcoming communist dictatorship, ending the cold
war and changing the world. He also honoured the memory of those victims
of the East German dictatorship who died at the border between the two
German states.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-2>
<H1>
Jewish barrack in Sachsenhausen re-opened as museum
</H1>
The Jewish barrack which had been destroyed in an arson attack five years
ago at the former Nazi concentration camp Sachsenhausen near Berlin has
been re-opened as a museum. The memorial which has approximately 250
square meters of exhibition space is dedicated to life of Jewish
prisoners in the concentration camp. Mr. Desirat, a representative of the
former inmates, said  the museum's mission is to make a contribution to
condemning the horror of Nazi dictatorship, racism and anti-semitism.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-3>
<H1>
Pension insurance reform
</H1>
In the fight about reforming the pension insurance scheme, German
Minister of Employment Norbert Bluem called on both the Social Democrat
(SPD)  and the Free Democrat (FDP) parties to make compromises.  Mr.
Bluem told the TV station "ZDF" that increasing pension contributions to
21 percent of salaries could be avoided if the governing coalition and
the Bundesrat (Upper House) reach agreement on alternative financing.
Although the FDP and the Christian Democratic Union reject raising
mineral oil tax, both Mr. Bluem and Mr. Schaeuble, the Parliamentary
Leader of the Union parties,  do not consider this an impossible
alternative. He appealed to FDP party leader Gerhardt to at least a
minimum compromise . Lower Saxony's State Premier Gerhard Schroeder told
the same TV station that extraneous social insurance benefits should not
be financed from the regular social insurance.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-4>
<H1>
Hamburg GAL discusses coalition agreement with SPD
</H1>
The Green-Alternative Party (GAL) of Hamburg is discussing the
coalition agreement with the SPD at a party convention. Before the
critical vote this evening, Party President Ms. Sager said that there
will be no more negotiations or a delay of the coalition agreement, as
this would be seen as being equivalent to a rejection. Some of the
approximately 400 party members present have vehemently criticised the
coalition agreement.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-5>
<H1>
German environmental award
</H1>
The President of the Central Bank, Mr. Tiedtmeier, has called on
politicians and industry to increase their efforts concerning climate
protection. Mr. Tiedtmeier said today during the award ceremony for the
German environmental prize that this subject should be of great
importance as regards national and international environmental policy.
The prize is worth one million marks and was shared by the entrepreneur
Otto, Goettingen forestry scientist Ulrich and the Flensburg company
"Integral Energietechnik". German Minister of Finance Theo Waigel
presented the awards, saying that the work of the prize-winners is a
contribution to the reconciliation between ecology and the social market
economy. The prize, whose prize money is one of the highest for
ecological prizes in Europe, was awarded for the fifth time.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-09-6>
<H1>
Jobless encouraged to become involved in volunteer work
</H1>
The President of the German Bundestag Rita Suessmuth has declared
herself in favour of encouraging more unemployed to do volunteer work.
Mrs. Suessmuth said in a newspaper interview that unemployed teenagers
and adults should have the every-day experience that they are not
excluded from society. She said that getting the unemployed involved in
volunteer work strengthens their self respect and motivates social
engagement, something which society needs that more than ever.

