<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-1>
<H1>
SPD party congress
</H1>
Topics at the SPD party congress today were the election of the executive
board and Chancellor Schroeder's controversial proposal regarding finance
and taxation policy. Schroeder implored the delegates to close ranks and
support the proposal. The five-point plan contains among other things an
increase in the estate tax for large properties. Demands from the left for a
wealth tax or capital levy were answered by Schroeder with the argument that
there wasn't enough support for that in the Bundesrat. "We have, my
comrades," said Schroeder, "attempted to outline in the executive board
proposal for this legislative period what - in concert with our coalition
partner to be sure - can and cannot be accomplished."

<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-2>
<H1>
CDU occupies itself with donation scandal
</H1>
The leaders of the CDU were again occupied with the party's financial
scandal, and the role played in that affair by former Chancellor Kohl. Kohl
himself took part in the session, and it is expected that he put forth
further details regarding the CDU's secret accounts. In addition, CDU head
Schaeuble wanted to report on the newest findings of the party's internal
investigation. Meanwhile, the newspaper "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" reported that
at one bank in Frankfurt alone, the CDU had 17 trust accounts opened by
their former accountant, Weyrauch. According to further reports in the
press, current CDU head Schaeuble and party General Secretary Merkel have
known about this system of accounts for at least a year.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-3>
<H1>
Nazi forced labor reparations negotiations close to collapse
</H1>
The negotiations regarding reparations to those forced to be slave laborers
under the Nazi regime are in danger of collapsing. The lawyers for the
victims have rejected Germany's offer, but are ready to engage in new
discussions next week. However, the German companies don't plan to up their
offer any further. The time for consideration of the German offer of 8
billion DM is over, and the response from the US lawyers for the former
slave laborers is a resounding no. Gebowski, head of the German industry's
repayment initiative, told ARD television, that it would be unfortunate,
even tragic if no agreement could be reached. The companies must however, he
said, have legal assurances that there would be no further claims after
reparations were paid. In that case, Gebowski said, more firms would support
the repayment, and would receive support from the government's
representative in the negotiations, Count Lambsdorff. Lambsdorff says it is
now up to the other side in the negotiations to make a clear proposal.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-4>
<H1>
Muellermilch wins Weihenstephan dairy contract
</H1>
It is now confirmed that Muellermilch (Mueller Milk) has won the contract to
operate the Bavarian state dairy in Weihenstephan. The budget committee of
the Bavarian parliament today selected Mueller from among three different
groups of contractors. Altogether, the dairy firm plans to invest more than
200 million DM, including transfer of debts, and in addition the endowment
of a professorship. The 340 jobs at the Weihenstephan and Bad Aibling
locations will be retained, according to state Minister of Finance
Faltlhauser. The CSU members of the budget committee voted for Mueller, the
SPD and Green members voted against.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-5>
<H1>
Police end Greenpeace protest by force
</H1>
Today in the port of Hamburg, police ended by force a Greenpeace protest
against the import of genetically modified corn from the USA. The Greenpeace
vessel "Beluga" was seized. Fifteen of the thirty environmentalists who took
part in the action were detained.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-08-6>
<H1>
Reduce blood alcohol limit demonstrates results
</H1>
The reduced blood alcohol limit of 0.5 units per thousand is clearly
demonstrating results. According to the statistics on traffic offenses kept
in Flensburg, violations of the limit have decreased in number. In addition,
the total number of traffic incidents is down. In 1999, it was about one
percent less than in the prior year.

