<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-1>
<H1>
Handball World Championship to continue despite attack
</H1>
The 13th Handball Ladies World Championship will continue, despite
the attack on two spectators yesterday evening in Berlin. This was decided
at an International Handball Federation meeting last night. Security
measures will be increased for today's games. Two Danish spectators were
fatally stabbed by a 48-year-old Berlin man during the match between
Denmark and Russia. The police said that the man was drunk and had got
involved in an argument with the two Danes. During the argument the man
stabbed the Danes, aged 34 and 39, with a knife. He will be charged today.
According to the Senator for Interior Affairs for Berlin, Mr. Schoenbom,
the man had come to police attention several times before, although he had
not as yet been charged with more serious offences. There did not seem to
be any political or xenophobic motives for the attack.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-2>
<H1>
After the EU summit in Luxembourg
</H1>
Turkey has turned down the invitation to the informal European
Conference next year and has threatened once more to annex the northern
part of Cyprus. This was the reaction of the government in Ankara to EU
state and governmental heads not offering Turkey concrete measures by which
they could become a member of the EU. The EU says that Turkey will only be
admitted to the EU when the country has fulfilled all the admission
criteria. Federal Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said that yesterday's
resolutions in Luxembourg regarding extending the EU were an historic step.
He said in a statement published in Bonn that the EU was in the process of
erasing the last traces of Yalta both from the map and from the minds of
people. In particular, Germany was fulfilling an old obligation to Central
and Eastern Europe. EU heads of state and government resolved yesterday to
begin concrete negotiations with six countries seeking admission to the EU.
Five more countries in Eastern and Southern Europe will have to wait for
admission at a later date.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-3>
<H1>
German development aid to Turkey to concentrate on specific areas
</H1>
The German government has determined that development aid for Turkey should
be used for conservation of the environment and fighting poverty. Germany
has promised Turkey a total of 99 billion marks in this regard, reported
the Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development in Bonn. Target aid
groups are to be disadvantaged communities in the East of Turkey, in
particular. Money has been set aside for this area for a purification
plant, credit for small business and other projects. Furthermore, Turkey
has been promised assistance in the area of education.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-4>
<H1>
Roeder scandal could grow
</H1>
The scandal regarding the right-wing radical lawyer Manfred Roeder
giving a talk at the Bundeswehr Leadership Academy could grow. The TV
magazine "Spiegel TV" reported that Mr. Roeder, who has been convicted in
the past of radical right-wing  activities, not only held a lecture at the
Academy in Hamburg but was also invited to a special dinner afterwards and
that he stayed at the Academy overnight. Mr. Roeder also said to "Spiegel
TV" that he had been driven in an official Bundeswehr vehicle to the
Academy by an officer of the elite Leadership Academy and driven home again
the next day.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-5>
<H1>
Gerhardt confirms FDP prevention of tax reform agreement
</H1>
The leader of the Free Democratic Party (FDP), Wolfgang Gerhardt, has
confirmed that his party had prevented an agreement being reached on tax
reforms between the coalition government and the Social Democrats last
week. Mr. Gerhardt said to "Hesse Radio" that the FDP did not want a tax
reform which did not justify its name. He continued that the proposed tax
reform did have areas where taxes would be decreased, but at the same time
there were drastic increases in value added and mineral oil taxes.
According to Mr. Gerhardt, the CDU, CSU and the SPD had considered
increasing value added tax by as much as 2 percent and mineral oil tax by
10 pfennigs per litre.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-6>
<H1>
Remuneration for MP's to be increased
</H1>
Members of Parliament will receive a salary increase as from April 1
next year, which is also the date that value added tax will be increased by
one percent. Parliamentarians will receive an increase of 525 marks, thus
earning
12 350 marks a month. The Taxpayers' Association has demanded that the
Bundestag to reverse this "act of impertinence". Mr. Daeke, the president
of the Taxpayers' Association, said in an interview that there were no
economic reasons for the increase and that when normal citizens and the
economy have to cut back drastically, so should everyone, including
parliamentarians. Mr von Arnim, an expert in national law, criticised both
the increase in remuneration and the  the Federation of Civil Servants
demand to bring forward their salary increase because of the increase in
value added tax. Mr. van Arnim called this derision for the high jobless
rate on the part of civil servants who are in tenured employment.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-7>
<H1>
More money for universities demanded
</H1>
Landfried, the president of the Conference of University
Vice-Chancellors, has demanded that government budgets allocate more money
to the universities. Instead of the present 0.9 percent of the Gross
National Product, universities and other tertiary educational institutions
should receive 1.3 percent in the future, said Prof. Landfried to the
"Deutschlandfunk" radio station. If this were not done, restrictive
admission criteria would have to be introduced for the over-full courses of
study. Prof. Landfried rejected the idea of introducing tuition fees,
which, he said, would mean that the poorer students would be discouraged
from going to university. He also supported reforming the federal education
financial assistance programme (BAFoeG). Prof. Landfried called for a basic
rate of financial assistance for students, independent of their parents'
income. The rest of the financial assistance should be covered by grants
and loans. Landfried said that the current student protests were justified
and that the professors and Vice-Chancellors of the universities supported
them in this regard.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-8>
<H1>
Largest evacuation in Germany since the Second World War
</H1>
Around 26,000 inhabitants from three districts of the town of
Ludwigshafen had to be evacuated this morning while a 4000kg bomb was
defused. Around 1250 representatives of the civic authorities and aid
organizations supervised the evacuation. At one o'clock experts from the
bomb disposal service set to work. The Second World War bomb was discovered
on Thursday in a field close to the main road to Speyer. German Rail warned
of delays to local and long-distance services while the device was being
defused, as no trains could run in the affected area. Air traffic over
Ludwigshafen and shipping on the Rhine was also suspended from midday.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-14-9>
<H1>
German Ladies handball team win bronze medal at World Championship
</H1>
In the contest for third place in the World Championship, the
German Ladies handball team this afternoon won their match against the
Russian team 27:25 on home territory. The victory was enough to secure the
German team the bronze medal. The final will be between Norway and Denmark.

