<DOC de-news-1999-12-04-1>
<H1>
CSU executive board meeting
</H1>
The CSU makes its support of the pending tax legislation contingent upon a
tax break of at least 40 billion marks.  Party chairman Stoiber made this
very clear at the conclusion of the two-day executive meeting of the CSU in
Wildbad Kreuth.  According to Stoiber, the CSU is aiming at a 25 per cent cut
in corporate and personal income tax.  At the same time, he fended off
concerns of the sister party CDU regarding such a large tax break.  In the
CSU's philosophy, each citizen should assume more responsibility in their
own health care and retirement planning.  In return, the CSU proposes a
reduced mandatory pension contribution and tax relief for families with
children.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-04-2>
<H1>
CDU campaign donations affair
</H1>
In the scandal about improperly reported campaign donations to the CDU,
former party chairman Helmut Kohl apparently has kept important files from
his successor Wolfgang Schaeuble.  According to "Welt am Sonntag," Schaeuble
has urged Kohl in a telephone conversation to surrender the documents in
question.  The news report says that these files are the records of the
interrogation of CDU tax consultant Weyrauch by the Augsburg Public
Prosecutor.  Mr. Terlinden, CDU administrator and confidant of Kohl, had
forwarded the files directly to Kohl and not to Schaeuble.  The latter
learned about these documents only by chance, according to "Welt am Sonntag."
In the meantime, the CDU has gained possession of the records, a spokesperson
said.  Terlinden was suspended immediately.  At the party convention on
December 13, the CDU is to present a progress report on uncovering the
campaign donation affair.  In the words of former CDU Secretary General
Geissler, the CDU leadership has to sever the ties to its long-standing
former party chairman Kohl.  The era where the CDU is identified by a single
person, must be gone forever, Geissler told the Berlin paper "BZ am Sonntag."

<DOC de-news-1999-12-04-3>
<H1>
Separation of government office and party office at the Greens
</H1>
The Green party of Hesse is the first state organization of The Greens to
repeal its customary directive of separating party mandate and government
office.  This means that, for example, the party officers such as the
executive spokesperson or managing director could now also hold government
offices.  This was traditionally prohibited by The Greens' party platform.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-04-4>
<H1>
Job cuts at Opel
</H1>
"Der Spiegel" reports on job reductions at Opel in its latest issue.
According to the magazine, some 8000 positions will be slashed at Opel in
Germany by 2004.  The plants at Bochum and Ruesselsheim are particularly
affected.  A completely new factory is to be built in Ruesselsheim.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-04-5>
<H1>
Gale over Germany
</H1>
The gale Anatol has led to at least 20 deaths in northers and eastern Europe,
in addition to millions of material damage.  Three women, among them two
Germans, and two men have died in Denmark in storm-related car accidents.
There were two casualties in Germany.  In northern Germany, winds were
gusting to 190 kilometers per hour.  Trees were uprooted, power poles tipped
over and street signs were ripped out.  Many homes were without power.  Some
roads and rail lines were disrupted for hours, ferries didn't leave port.
Radio broadcasts urged people to refrain from unnecessary driving and to stay
at home.  By midnight, police units had been dispatched 1400 times in
Schleswig-Holstein alone.  The damage runs into millions of marks.  In
Hamburg, preparations were made early on for a spring tide, and large areas
of the harbor were closed off.  The water level tapered off at 5.86 meters
above normal, higher than at the devastating flood of 1962 when 300 perished
in the waters.  Nowadays, however, the dikes are higher and resisted the
onslaught, everywhere in northern Germany.  Off the island of Sylt, a
freighter was in distress and drifting towards the island.  A tow boat,
however, succeeded in linking up with the freighter which will now be towed
to Cuxhaven.  Meteorologists have said unanimously that this was one of the
heaviest storms in many years.

