<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-1>
<H1>
Murder of eleven-year old Christina solved
</H1>
The murder of Christina, age 11, from Struecklingen, has been solved.  A
thirty-year old man has confessed to abducting the girl 2 1/2 months ago,
sexually molesting her and then strangling her.  The police reported this
information at a press conference this afternoon.  The suspect was
apprehended yesterday afternoon in the garden of his home near
Struecklingen.  The man, a father of three children, did not resist
arrest.  At the interrogation during the night, he confessed to making
Christina, age 11, his victim in a violent crime and also assumed
responsibility for another instance of sexual molestation in 1996.  The
search for Christina's murderer included gene testing of a tremendous
amount of people--approximately 15,000, the most in the history of the
Federal Republic.  On Good Friday, the individual currently under arrest
voluntarily agreed to provide a saliva sample.  As the district attorney's
office reported in the afternoon, the suspect has had a criminal record
and already served time which was reduced by 1/3 when the individual was
released in 1993 due to a positive psychological evaluation.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-2>
<H1>
G8 summit in June more timely due to atomic tests
</H1>
On June 12th, the foreign ministers of the eight leading industrial
nations plan to meet to discuss a common plan of action to deal with the
most recent atomic tests in India and Pakistan.  The date of the upcoming
summit became all the more timely in light of the new atomic testing
conducted today by Pakistan.  In disregard of the efforts of the
international community, the Pakistani government in Islamabad allowed the
testing of a 40 kilo ton bomb to continue.  This bomb is two times as
powerful as the one used on Hiroshima.  Pakistan states that yesterday's
tests will be the last ones.  Both India and Pakistan have expressed their
willingness to negotiate.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-3>
<H1>
Greens: Atomic energy sector involved in organized crime
</H1>
Alliance 90/The Greens have accused the atomic energy sector of being
involved in organized crime.  Michaele Husted, The Greens' Environmental
Spokesperson in the Bundestag, stated in Bonn that power plant operators
and those who transport atomic material have formed their own "cartel" of
silence, deception, and distortion.  Husted accused individuals in the
atomic energy sector of willingly lying, cheating, and endangering the
health of others to protect their multi-billion mark industry.  The atomic
energy industry has obtained its operating permits by feigning
dependability, she claims.  Husted continues, "It is organized crime to an
extent that even the most vocal opponents of atomic energy would never
have dreamt of." She demanded that the district attorney investigate
various incidents.  Kerstin Mueller, The Greens' parliamentary
spokesperson, appeared on Info-Radio Berlin/Brandenburg and called for the
resignation of Federal Environmental Minister, Angela Merkel. In addition,
the Bundestag is expected to establish a special committee for the
investigation.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-4>
<H1>
Sudeten Germans get backing from Finance Minister Waigel
</H1>
Representatives of the federal government have urged the Czech Republic to
be more sensitive to the interests of the Sudeten Germans.  In essence,
there are three items which the Sudeten Germans demand of the Czech
government: the right to a homeland, an admission that is Sudeten German
deportation was unjust, and reparations for the victims of deportation
within reasonable bounds.  At least the first two demands of the Sudeten
German delegation is supported by Federal Finance Minister Waigel.  At the
opening of the 49th Sudeten German Congress in Nuremberg, Mr. Waigel
stated that this year's meeting, traditionally taking place during
Pentecost, must give an unmistakable message of reconciliation.  He
directed criticism at the Czech government for its continuing reluctance
to have a direct dialogue with the Sudeten Germans.  As regards entry of
the Czech Republic into the European Union, Waigel voiced the position of
the Sudeten Germans: yes to their admission but only when the Benesch
Decrees of 1946 are annulled.  They officially legitimized the expulsion
and expatriation of the Sudeten Germans.  The key-note speech at the main
assembly will be given by Mr. Stoiber, Minister President of Bavaria.
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel issued a warning, however, about linking
admission of the Czech Republic into the EU with the demands of the
Sudeten Germans.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-5>
<H1>
Annual Congress of Amnesty International (AI) in Hamburg
</H1>
Amnesty International (AI), the human rights organization, is increasing
its efforts to protect human rights throughout the world, including
Germany.  On the first day of the annual meeting of the German division of
AI, companies and business leaders were reminded of their personal
responsibility in protecting human rights.  Some 1,000 delegates will
gather in Hamburg until Pentecost on Monday to discuss their work.  The
event marks the fiftieth anniversary of the obligatory Declaration of
Human Rights.  It is an anniversary that is characterized rather by human
rights abuses than advances.  AI is dissatisfied with its dwindling
membership and a decrease in income.  Volkmar Deile (sp?), General
Secretary of the German division of AI stressed today that progress has
been made in reporting instances of police violations in Germany to the
public.  At the same time, he noted that the plight of those seeking
political asylum as well as persecuted women and children should be
investigated to a greater extent by Amnesty International.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-6>
<H1>
Conflicts follow anti-euro rally in Saarbruecken
</H1>
A rally of German and Belgian right-wing radicals in Saarbruecken has led
to conflicts near the French-German border.  60 leftist protesters put on
a counter demonstration and hurled rocks at police.  According to reports,
authorities took 56 people into custody and one protester sustained
injuries.  Several thousand people came from the Saarland, Lorraine and
Luxembourg to conduct a peaceful demonstration against the anti-euro rally
held by the German right-wing radical party "The Republicans" and the
Belgian "Flamsblock"  party.  Approximately 500 people answered the call
of right-wingers, including numerous skin heads willing to resort to
violence.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-30-7>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
In Southern Germany, lightly cloudy or clear in the evening and overnight.
Heavy cloud cover and possible rain elsewhere.  Between the Elbe and the
Weser also thunderstorms.  Tomorrow fog in the a.m. in some areas.  Low
temperatures 15-9 degrees Celsius.  Tomorrow, first clear west of the
Elbe, then more clouds from South to West in the afternoon.  Towards
afternoon, local showers and thunderstorms.  In the other regions, some
heavier cloud cover and occasional rain with sporadic thunderstorms.  High
temperatures between 18 degrees on the coast to 27 degrees on the Danube
and Oder.  In coastal regions, brisk North-East wind.  Some thunderstorm
gusts but otherwise little wind.  Later in the week: On Monday in the
East: rain and thunderstorms early in the day.  Otherwise, sunny and dry,
19-25 degrees.

