<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-1>
<H1>
Mehmet is deported
</H1>
The 14-year-old Turkish serial criminal Mehmet was deported to Turkey
today. According to the Munich city council, the 14-year-old was flown on a
scheduled plane to Istanbul. The deportation took place after yesterday's
Federal Constitutional Court decision which decided against Mehmet's appeal
over the impending deportation. As a result of the decision, the Juvenile
Court of the Munich Regional Court rescinded the detention order for the
young man, thereby fulfilling a further prerequisite for his deportation. In
the meantime, Mehmet's attorney announced that it is possible that the
14-year-old will be allowed to return to Germany after the decision in the
main proceedings. Bavaria's Minister of the Interior Beckstein, however,
estimates that the probability of this is approximately 1 to 10,000.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-2>
<H1>
Sonnleitner: Farmers are the victims of the tax reform
</H1>
The president of the German Association of Farmers, Sonnleitner, has accused
the Federal government of deceiving the voters. In the news magazine "Focus,"
the Association's president complained that Gerhard Schroeder campaigned
under the motto that he would relieve small and mid-range incomes. However,
the workers in agriculture and forestry will be facing an additional tax
burden of several billion German marks. Sonnleitner views the farmers as the
victims of the tax reform. Other economic and social groups will be seeing
considerable improvements in the consultants' draft - at the cost of
agricultural groups. Sonnleitner referred to this "obvious disadvantage" in a
letter to Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine. Sonnleitner also scolded
Agricultural Minister Karl-Heinz Funke. He feels that Funke constantly stands
up for the farmers in interviews, but when push comes to shove, his attempts
don't amount to much.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-3>
<H1>
Fire-fighting operations on damaged freighter continue
</H1>
The fire-fighting operations on Pallas, the freighter that is run
aground in the North Sea island of Amrum continue today. According to
experts, the freighter will have to be flooded in order to extinguish all of
the blazes. The pressure changes that would result from flooding the ship,
however, could endanger the ship's stability. The experts also fear that
Pallas might break up from the surf if another storm moves in. Up to now, 20
tons of oil have leaked from the freighter which belongs to an Italian
shipping company. According to the National Park Department, 2,500 birds have
died so far. Seven sea lions covered in oil have also been discovered.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-4>
<H1>
Care insurance premiums sink for private patients
</H1>
The premiums for care insurance should drop for the majority of
private patients next year. According to a report in the news magazine
"Focus," the private health insurance companies had assumed too high a care
risk for years and had therefore charged excessive premiums. In contrast to
state-sponsored National Health insurance companies, private insurance
companies can grade their premiums independent of income and according to the
age of the insured person. According to "Focus," the 28 and 29-year-old
members will profit the most from the change. Their contributions should sink
by at least 120 DM a year. National Health patients, on the other hand, will
have to continue paying 1.7% of their gross income for care insurance.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-5>
<H1>
Good prospects on the labor market
</H1>
The number of unemployed persons in Germany will continue to decrease. The
president of the Federal Labor Institute, Jagoda, holds this optimistic
opinion. He told "Bild am Sonntag" that the reason is the decreasing number
of requests for jobs. More people retire than there are young people entering
the labor market for the first time. Jagoda estimates that the number of
available employees will drop to more than 270,000.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-6>
<H1>
Blunt words from Stoiber
</H1>
Bavarian Minister President Stoiber (CSU) is concerned about the future of
the big sister party, CDU. Stoiber told the news magazine "Spiegel" that 16
years of governing, the party has been worn out and that the CDU does
not have enough direct and intensive contact with the German citizens. The
Union must now speak to a wide spectrum of the population and view the nation
as a community of fate and having a common bond. Stoiber clearly rejected
considerations within the CDU to attempt to form a Black-Green coalition. In
doing this, Stoiber distanced himself from the CDU head Schaeuble. Stoiber
views such a debate as false and damaging. Stoiber also sharply criticized
the planned Red-Green health reform. The Minister President feels that the
reform jeopardizes first-rate medical care for everyone.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-14-7>
<H1>
Global Warming Summit in Buenos Aires
</H1>
Negotiations over key questions regarding the Kyoto environmental protocol
are delaying the conclusion of the global warming summit in Buenos Aires.
The main point of discussion in the marathon talks was the American proposal
that developing countries also reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases by
2012. Oil-producing countries are also insisting that they be financially
compensated should their oil exports decline as a result of the protective
measures around global warming. A small and select circle of 30 environmental
ministers, including German environmental minister Juergen Trittin, met
behind closed doors to try to help the conference achieve its goals. The
theoretical goal to gradually implement an average 5% cut in greenhouse gas
emissions in large industrial countries by 2012 was already set and was not
discussed. This goal had already been decided at the last conference eleven
months ago.  Instead, the question of how to put the protocol in practice was
discussed in Buenos Aires. The negotiators were supposed to agree on an joint
plan of action, but the countries that export natural gas and crude oil stood
in the way. They wanted to be compensated for future lost oil sales due to
climate protection measures. An agreement with the trading bloc could hardly
be counted on without money or other concessions. According to Environmental
Minister Tritten, the USA was easier to deal with than the oil bloc regarding
time limitations and exact rules for climate protection. However,
environmental protection groups fear that this approach were at the cost of
the substance of the agreement.  The Global Warming Summit ended with a
program to lower greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental Minister Tritten
called the paper a success. The minister had earlier criticized the
negotiations as being slow-moving. The program contains a time plan as well
as concrete measures like investments by the industrial nations in Third
World nations. Jordan has applied to host the next Global Warming Summit in
1999.

