<DOC de-news-1998-08-22-1>
<H1>
SPD 3 city tour begins hottest phase of election campaign
</H1>
The SPD wants to commit their supporters to a change of government in Bonn
with a election tour through three cities. The election crew stopped in
Berlin, Munich and Bonn. Party head Oskar Lafontaine emphasized that
unemployment, the tax burden and federal debt have never been higher than
after 16 years of Helmut Kohl being in office. A Schroeder government would
strengthen the employees. Lafontaine stressed the main idea of "social
justice" in his speech. Schroeder, the SPD's candidate for Federal
Chancellor, also stressed innovation and once again supported a labor
coalition in order to solve the problems on the employment market and to
create training positions. Schroeder once again pointed out that the SPD
intends to stress the value of training and education, that everyone should
again receive 100 percent continuous payment of wages, and that the
government should not allow the creation of second-class medicine. The
Bavarian head of the SPD, Ms. Schmidt, appealed to the voters of the Free
State during the event in the Munich Olympiahalle to send a signal during
the regional elections on September 13th that change is necessary in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-22-2>
<H1>
Kohl is also certain of victory
</H1>
The Federal Chancellor demonstrated his self-confidence five weeks before
the federal elections. He commented on a public survey that said that the
SPD was ahead of the CDU in the polls in a recent interview. In the
interview, Kohl said that many voters would make their decision shortly
before the election. Finance minister Waigel once again promised the voters
a tax relief of 30 billion German Marks. However, he added that this step
could not happen all at once.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-22-3>
<H1>
Spaeth: No real reservations against a grand coalition
</H1>
Hamburg: Mr. Spaeth, the head of Jenoptik and Federal Chancellor Helmut
Kohl's new economic advisor, has no real reservations against a grand coalition
after the parliamentary elections. Spaeth said in an interview that the
only important thing is how much the next government could welcome reform.
According to him, a black-red alliance is dependent on the fact that the
pragmatists on both sides get their way. Conversely, top politicians from
the FDP and CSU once again announced their reservations. Their argument is
that grand coalitions have only brought small results up to now.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-22-4>
<H1>
Bubis welcomes suit against DEGUSSA
</H1>
The chairman of the Central Committee of the Jewish community in Germany
approved of the suit filed by Holocaust survivors again the chemical
company DEGUSSA. However, Bubis was skeptical of the amount of compensation
being demanded. He described the claim as beyond good and evil. The
plaintiffs demand the company's entire assets as compensation for the
company's cooperation with the Nazis. They accuse DEGUSSA of melting the
gold from the teeth of Holocaust victims on behalf of the Reichsbank
(former German federal bank). The company is also accused of working with
IG Farben in the manufacture of Zyklon B, the gas that was used in
concentration camps.

<P>
Frankfurt: The DEGUSSA group expressed a lack of understanding to the
Holocaust survivors' suit and refused to provide a detailed statement on
the grounds that the specifics of the charges were not yet available.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-22-5>
<H1>
European light athletics championship: Gold for Heike Drechsler
</H1>
Budapest: Heike Drechsler won the gold medal in the long jump during the
European light athletics championship. Silver medals went to the German
sprinters in the 4x100 meters relay, Theo Lobinger from Cologne in the pole
vault, and Falk Balzer from Jena in the 100 meter hurdles. Hammer thrower
Kirsten Muenchow from Fuerth, won the bronze medal.

