<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-1>
<H1>
Hans Kueng honored with the Theodor Heuss prize
</H1>
The Catholic theologian Hans Kueng has been awarded the Theodor
Heuss prize. Hans Kueng is the 34th winner of the prize, which is awarded
every year by the non-partisan Theodor Heuss Foundation to public figures
who have earned the award by excelling either politically or socially. The
committee election this year was based around the motto "The Search for a
New Ethos - Both Foreign and Domestic".  Hans Kueng's decade-long search
is based exactly on this motto. The theologian has traveled around the
world and campaigned for basic ethical values that he feels are
inalienable and undeniable regardless of religion and nationality through
his foundation "Project World Ethos", which was founded eight years ago.
He brought together representatives of the world's religions for a global
parliament in order to promote dialog and cooperation. He worked together
with important politicians to draw up a human rights declaration and never
tired of fighting to change out-dated principles and stagnation. Kueng,
who has fought with the Vatican for the past 20 years with his critical
views on religion and the Pope, is one of the most well-known Catholic
theologians in the world.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-2>
<H1>
CSU wants to push political topics to the forefront once again
</H1>
Leading CSU politicians announced yesterday at their executive
meeting in Munich that the CSU wants to end the personnel discussion
within the Union and immediately concentrate on their fight with the SPD.
After the CSU attacks during Easter on Union fraction head Schaeuble, the
CSU leaders want to once again push political topics to the forefront.
According to party head Theo Waigel, he feels that the discussion over the
who will succeed the Chancellor is no longer at issue. It wasn't an issue
between Waigel and Schaeuble and has now been decided. Waigel said he made
it clear to the Bavarian leader that what Mr. Geissler and other party
leaders think daily is irrelevant. Waigel as well as the Bavarian party
leader Stoiber are judging the SPD candidate for Chancellor Schroeder
quite harshly. Waigel considers the SPD election platform to be one of
contradiction, exclusion and cover-ups - a step backwards. The Bavarian
state leader Stoiber called the SPD party conference a production that
should be evaluated by theater critics instead of by politicians.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-3>
<H1>
Kohl criticizes the SPD special party conference as an event for show
</H1>
Even Federal Chancellor Kohl considered the SPD special party conference
in Leipzig an event purely for show. He could only scorn and deride his
opponent Gerhard Schroeder, which is to be expected. According to Kohl,
the SPD candidate for Chancellor has no program and simply wants to be in
power.  However, the Chancellor wants to be in power as well and has
therefore thought out a new election topic. The Chancellor is certain that
there will be tax reforms if he wins the election. Helmut Kohl argued in a
magazine interview that the states that are led by the SPD have simply
blocked the tax reform in the Bundesrat for tactical election reasons.
Since this reason will no longer exist after September 27th, he foresees
that the citizens will vote for the tax reform in the Bundestag election.
Kohl seems to have overlooked that the SPD-led states have also voiced
criticism about the contents of the Union's tax plans. Even the social
democrats are beginning to see that tax reform should occur soon, but on
their terms. Should Gerhard Schroeder become Federal Chancellor, he can
count on a cooperative Bundesrat as well as a majority in the Bundestag,
since the SPD majority would certainly not vote against their own
candidate. Helmut Kohl most certainly realizes this deep down, as he said
in the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag" while talking about his chances in the
election that he realizes the Union has a tough fight ahead. The upcoming
Landtag [state parliament] election in Saxony-Anhalt plays a large role in
this fight. There are predictions of a debacle for the CDU. Even if those
predictions should come true, Union party leader Wolfgang Schaeuble and
Bundestag president Rita Suessmuth are warning that there could be new
discussions regarding the candidate for Chancellor within the Union.
Suessmuth was quoted in "Der Spiegel" as saying that one shouldn't change
horses mid-stream.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-4>
<H1>
Government Privacy Commissioner for limiting the genetic registry
</H1>
The Federal Government's Privacy Commission Jakob has demanded
considerably limiting the new register of genetic data files. Jakob
criticized the instructions from Minister of the Interior Kanther to
include all illegal acts that are of considerable importance into the
genetic data files as going too far. In addition, he has called for a
special law regarding this. His Saxon colleague Giesen made a similar
statement. On the other hand, leading CDU members are in favor of further
expanding the process of recording genetic fingerprints of criminals in a
national database.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-5>
<H1>
Possible lowering of cable television fees
</H1>
According to reports by "Der Spiegel" and "Focus", the
Deutsche Telekom might possibly lower the fees for cable television. In a
study by the Bonn regulation authorities, the price increase last November
was an average of 15 percent too high.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-18-6>
<H1>
Merger preparations for the new "Suedwest LB" are stalled
</H1>
According to a report in the Stuttgart news, the preparations
of the merger of "Suedwestdeutsche Landesbank", "Landeskreditbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg" and "Landesgirokasse", forming the new "Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg" have begun to falter. The controversy is over how the
"Suedwest LB" shares held by "Landesgirokasse" should be valued. Since the
"Landesgirokasse" does not trust the two evaluation reports, they have
submitted their own. An agreement regarding personnel questions has also
slipped into the distant future.

