<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-1>
<H1>
Collective bargaining in public service industry
</H1>
Employers and unions have started early collective bargaining for 3.2
million public service employees. For the first time the two unions OeTV
and DAG enter the negotiations without specific wage demands. Instead, they
demand the reduction of overtime, fewer working hours for the same monthly
wage, and the introduction of part-time retirement. The federal, state and
municipal employers on the other hand demand more flexible working hours,
cuts in sick pay, and wages below those negotiated with unions for the
recruitment of unemployed.
Immediately before the negotiations, Herbert May, head of the OeTV union,
underlined the union's position in an interview on ZDF television. He said
the reduction of working hours could make jobs more secure and create new
ones. It had been shown that employees were ready to give up other
privileges to make their jobs more secure.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-2>
<H1>
September unemployment rate: 4.3 million
</H1>
The employment situation remains tight. At the end of September 4.3 million
unemployed were registered in Germany. This is the highest number for
September since World War II. The unemployment rate was 11.2 percent
compared to 11.4 percent in August, a decrease of about 64,000 unemployed.
The president of the Federal Labour Office Bernhard Jagoda said the
decrease was exclusively due to the usual pick-up in fall. Mr. Jagoda said
there was no change of trend in sight. The situation in East Germany was
especially critical. There, the unemployment rate is 18.3 percent. In
addition, more than 47000 youths are still without a training job although
the educational year already started four weeks ago. Only 26000 trainee
positions are currently open.
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl stated he expects a noticeable decrease in
the unemployment rate within the next six to eight weeks. So far, the
government had predicted that the trend might be reversed this fall. Mr.
Kohl said it was one of the tough experiences of the past 20 years that an
accelerated economy does not produce more employment automatically.
Government spokesman Peter Hausmann said the fight against unemployment
remains a core task for the coalition's interior policy. Therefore, it
would stick to its reform programme of more growth and employment.
Social-Democrats, Alliance90/Greens, and the Federation of Unions, however,
accused the government of having contributed to the employment crisis.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-3>
<H1>
CDU social committees deviate from party platform
</H1>
The social committees of the CDU are deviating from the party leadership's
tax policy. The chairperson of the CDA Rainer Eppelmann supports a proposal
by the opposition SPD to plug holes in the tax system immediately. In an
interview with the daily Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung Mr. Eppelmann said the
SPD's criticism was appropriate and in proportion. Every citizen and
politician should be startled that Germany's tax revenue decreases in spite
of a growing economy.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-4>
<H1>
Trial for poisonous gas production
</H1>
One of the largest ever trials concerning the illegal supply of poisonous
gas to Libya has come up in the State Court of Monchengladbach. Two
Niederrhein firms have been accused of violating the war arms control law.
They allegedly supplied electronic components through a middle man in
Belgium for use in poisonous gas production in Libya. The two accused, who
have been on remand since last August, were brought for examination today.
The trial was then adjourned until next Tuesday.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-5>
<H1>
SPD and GAL in coalition talks in Hamburg
</H1>
The SPD and the Green-Alternative-List (GAL) are expected to begin
coalition talks on Thursday. SPD Mayor Runde is optimistic that
negotiations will be successful. He says the Greens were chosen for
negotiation because the local CDU would not be able to deviate widely from
Bonn government policy.  The GAL fraction chief Sager said that a red-green
alliance will be under heavy pressure to succeed. The main political task
for the new Hamburg government will be developing the economic potential of
the city. The second most important issue is the effects of the social gap
between rich and poor. According to Sager the main problem is the
disastrous financial situation in Hamburg, which will prevent any major
steps being taken. At the same time, emphasis should be put on education
and training, the drugs problem and fighting poverty.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-6>
<H1>
Trade union congresses
</H1>
The trade unions want to become more heavily involved in political
campaigns in the election year, 1998. The German Association of Trade
Unions (DGB) declared in Duesseldorf that the main goal will continue to be
fighting against unemployment. IG Metall chief Zwickel said that would
depend on a change of government. With a new government there would be,
said Zwickel, a new "Alliance for Jobs". The current Bonn government is no
longer concerned about the future of the country. At the merger conference
for the new IG Mining, Chemicals and Energy in Hannover, the former chief
of the IG Chemicals, Hubertus Schmidt, was elected as chairperson. The
52-year-old had no opposing candidate and received almost 96 percent of the
vote. At the union meeting of the IG Construction in Hamburg, the chairman
Mr. Wiesehuegel was confirmed in office for a further four years.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-7>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg: additional positions for trainee teachers
</H1>
The State government of Baden-Wuerttemberg is to create an additional 750
placements over the next two years for student teachers. State Premier
Teufel added that in the coming weeks 140 extra assistant teachers will be
given places in grammar and vocational schools. This would allow most
candidate teachers to gain positions after completing their studies. At the
same time the waiting period for those as yet unsuccessful applicants will
be restricted to two years and an obligatory practical term for student
teachers will be introduced. The new positions will cost the government an
extra DM 23 million in the next two years.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-07-8>
<H1>
Becker is the new Davis Cup team leader
</H1>
Niki Pilic is to give up his position as team leader and captain of the
German Davis Cup team. According to the German Tennis Federation, Boris
Becker is to be the new team boss. The former tennis professional Carl-Uwe
Steeb will be captain of the team. Under Pilic's leadership, Germany won
the Davis Cup three times.

