<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-1>
<H1>
Experts predict increase in economic growth
</H1>
Economic experts predict a worldwide increase in economic growth
in spite of the currency crisis in South East Asia. This is the result of
a survey by the Munich Institute of Economic Research. According to the
survey, the world economy will grow by an average of 3.5 percent in the
next few years. This is more than predicted at the beginning of the year.
Economic experts also predict a growth rate of 2.9 percent for Western
Europe. Growth estimates for Asia were lower than the earlier estimates
which is similar to predictions made by the International Currency Fund.
Experts say that Ireland, which has a growth rate of six percent, has the
highest growth rate in Western Europe. It is also predicted that the
economy in Germany will improve.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-2>
<H1>
Decrease in tax revenue attributed to high write-offs
</H1>
The IFO Economic Research Institute attributes lower tax revenue
to high write-offs. They report that income tax revenue has decreased
significantly. The government had expected 42 billion marks in tax
revenue, whereas only 4.5 billion was paid due to tax write-offs. In
particular, heavy use had been made of writing off investments in East
Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-3>
<H1>
Discussion on postal law
</H1>
Politicians of the governing coalition and the Social Democratic
Party (SPD) will meet this evening [Sunday] to discuss the new postal
law. Reports from Bonn indicate that the parties plan to explore a
compromise with Post Minister Boetsch of the CSU before the decisive
meeting of the Mediation Committee of the Bundestag and Bundesrat next
Wednesday. It is uncertain whether a compromise will be achieved. The law
which regulates the German postal system expires at the end of the year
and the Post Ministry will be dissolved. Starting in 1998, the German
Post joint-stock company will lose the monopoly it has enjoyed so far,
but some regulations have been contested. The SPD wants to attach social
standards to the new law to avoid distortion of the free market in favor
of the Post's competitors. Mr. Boetsch has indicated that he is willing
to compromise on this point. Only the Free Democratic Party (FDP) has,
till now, refused to accept such a social clause.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-4>
<H1>
DGB plans legal action against hospital emergency fund
</H1>
The German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) is planning to
legally contest the hospital emergency fund, which will serve as a
precedent case. According to the DGB the emergency fund is
unconstitutional. Only those insured with the public health insurance
schemes are required to pay the contribution to the upkeep hospitals,
whereas those insured with private health insurances are not required to
contribute. The DGB also say that is unfair that people have to pay who
might never have need of a hospital. The DGB suggests that contributors
pay the 20 marks, but that they accompany their payment with a letter of
protest. This ensures that those who have paid have a legal claim to a
refund if the DGB win their case and the contribution is found to be
unconstitutional. The Baden-Wuerttemberg AOK, one of the public
insurances, reports that their local offices are receiving baskets full
of protest letters. Health insurance members are annoyed that they are
liable for an additional payment. The contribution of 20 marks per member
is intended to raise 880 million marks to be used for the maintenance of
hospital buildings. The president of the Berlin Medical Council, Mr.
Huber, has encouraged members of the public insurances to boycott the
fee, saying that the expensive bureaucracy involved, makes the hospital
emergency fund a money annihilation program. German Minister of Health
Seehofer however said that without this emergency fund, hospitals will
not be able to continue operate reasonably. He also denied that private
patients do not have to pay to the fund, saying that it has been left to
the individual insurances whether or not they want to charge their
members.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-5>
<H1>
EU says no to different reduction levels of greenhouse gasses
</H1>
The European Union continues to object that cuts in greenhouse gas
emission for Europe should be different to the United States or Japan.
This was repeated just before the start of the decisive phase of the
World Climate Convention in Japan. Japan and the United States have to
adhere to the same guidelines as the European Union, said the EU
Environment Commissioner in Kyoto, as all three economic regions have
similar conditions. He continued that a differentiation would mean that
Japan and the USA have a business advantage over Europe.  The United
Nations climate conference is scheduled to end on Wednesday.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-6>
<H1>
Investigation on talk by neo-Nazi leader at Bundeswehr academy
</H1>
The German Ministry of Defense has initiated an investigation
regarding an talk given by a neo-Nazi leader at a Bundeswehr academy. A
speaker of the Ministry said that Manfred Roeder, who is seen as a symbol
for the neo-Nazi scene, reported on Germans living in Russia at the
Hamburg Bundeswehr leadership academy in 1995. According to newspaper
reports, Mr. Roeder was invited by the chief of the academy staff. The
Ministry of Defense plans to investigate whether the academy knew that
Mr. Roeder  was involved in radical right-wing politics.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-7>
<H1>
European Film Awards
</H1>
The British comedy "The Full Monty" was awarded the European Film
of the Year award. The prize for best actress went to French actress
Juliette Binoche for her role in "The English Patient", and best actor to
British actor Bob Hoskins for "TwentyFourSeven". The public's prizes was
awarded to American actress Jodie Foster and Spanish actor Havier Barden.
This was the tenth time that the European Film Awards (formerly called
the Felix Awards) were held in Berlin. Jeanne Moreau was honored for her
life's work.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-07-8>
<H1>
Hannes Heer awarded Karl von Ossietzky medal
</H1>
The historian Hannes Heer was awarded the Karl von Ossietzky
medal for his exhibition "Verbrechen der Wehrmacht" (Crimes committed by
the Germany Army in the 2nd World War). The International League of Human
Rights decided to award the medal to Mr. Heer as he had broken a taboo in
Germany.. The touring exhibition has shaken the public since it was
opened in May 1995.

