<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-1>
<H1>
Herzog ends China trip
</H1>
Germany and China want a stable and long-lasting relationship
despite differences over the question of human rights. German President
Herzog feels that differences of opinion notwithstanding, a new dialogue
has been initiated. After talks with Chinese government leader Li Peng and
state and party leader Yang Tse-Min, Herzog evaluated his trip as positive
on the whole. "I am satisfied", the president said. He also said, at a
reception in Beijing, that he expected the dialogue between the two
countries to advance one step at a time, after his meetings with Chinese
leaders, and that a new basis for discussion had been established. Herzog
emphasized that he wanted German-Chinese talks to proceed on a calm,
rational level, but he did not hide the discord in some areas. He said
that nothing was swept under the rug during their discussions, that human
rights were one important topic among others. He doubted that he had
caused any movement on the part of the Chinese over this issue. A list
with the names of 14 political prisoners was apparently given to the
Chinese leadership. According to the German president, the legal position
of most Chinese has improved significantly overall since the beginning of
reforms and a new policy of openness. Herzog expressed confidence that
this development would continue in the coming years.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-2>
<H1>
Foreign Minister Kinkel rejects criticism of dealings with Iran
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel has rejected criticism of his
dealings with Iran. Given tension over the "Mykonos" trial, he said it was
senseless in a critical situation to make decisions which would later be
untenable; breaking off diplomatic relations with Iran would be an
absolute error. Kinkel added that the notion of the "critical dialogue",
which originated with him, had taken on an exaggerated symbolic value
among his detractors. He said that the basic principle that it was better
to maintain contact with a country than to put it in the corner was still
correct. In reaction to a call from CDU foreign affairs speaker Lahmers to
stop using the phrase "critical dialogue", Kinkel said that he had
actually referred to the European Union's manner of dealing with Iran as a
"policy of critical intervention".
Meanwhile, the Iranian leadership has let it be known that they want to
avoid any further escalation of tensions in German-Iranian relations. The
Iranian Foreign Ministry issued a statement, according to a report from
Iranian state television, that Germans in Teheran were not in any kind of
danger.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-3>
<H1>
Iranian threats against German prosecutors
</H1>
Threats from Iranian spiritual leaders against members of
the prosecution in the "Mykonos" trial burden German-Iranian relations
further. The religious men threatened the three federal prosecutors today
with a sort of death-spell. At a rally in the holy city of Gomm, several
thousand students of the Koran, along with religious leaders, issued a
declaration to that effect. The statement puts the insults to Iran arising
from the "Mykonos" trial on a footing with the novel "the Satanic Verses"
by British author Salman Rushdie, who has been living in hiding since a
death threat was issued for him by Iran in 1989.
Justice Minister Schmidt-Jortzig stated that he was horrified to learn of
the news, and that he would personally make sure that the public
prosecutor's office could continue to do its duty uninfluenced by
political pressure and threats. Development Minister Spranger demanded a
change in German policies toward Iran. He told the BILD newspaper that
state-sponsored terrorism against independent thinkers in Iran was being
again made clearly visible through the "Mykonos" trial. He also said that
the death threats against representatives of the German justice system
showed the contempt for human life of the government in Teheran, which was
pulling the rug out from under the "critical dialogue".

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-4>
<H1>
3.5 percent more new students
</H1>
The number of new students is 3.5 percent higher this year, at
283,100, than in 1996. The president of the conference of post-secondary
institution directors, Erichsen, addressed the numbers in Bonn, saying
that the period of diminishing numbers of students was now past and would
not return, there being an expected growth of up to 380,000 new students
by the year 2010. He continued that the numbers proved that the cuts to
post-secondary education in most federal states were short-sighted and
untenable. Furthermore, said Erichsen, in the medium term, such an
attitude would be expensive, unless one was content to miss the boat.
According to his figures, the other countries in the European Economic and
Cooperation Organization spend the equivalent of $9,326 (US) per
post-secondary student per year, while the amount in Germany was just
$6,322 (US). He called this difference shocking.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-5>
<H1>
Germany wants out of UN Industrial Development Organization
</H1>
Germany wants to remove itself from the UN Industrial Development
Organization, Development Minister Spranger announced today. UNIDO
supports third-world countries with technical aid in industrializing.
Spranger gave the reason for the move as cuts in the foreign aid budget.
Germany presently pays 17 million marks a year for UNIDO projects.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-6>
<H1>
German-Bosnian repatriation agreement signed
</H1>
Internal Affairs Minister Kanther and the Bosnian Minister Reciza
(sp?) have signed an agreement on the repatriation of the approximately
320,000 Bosnian refugees in Germany. In the agreement, Bosnia-Hercegovina
promises to take back all of its citizens who had fled to Germany. Kanther
said that Germany had fulfilled its humanitary duty exemplarily in
accepting those fleeing the war in former Yugoslavia, but now it was time
for all of them to go back and help rebuild their shattered homeland.
According to a decision of the minister and internal affairs senators, the
repatriation of criminals began on a small scale already on October 1. The
repatriation plans, agreed upon by the federal states, will proceed in an
orderly and humane fashion, with an eye on actual conditions in affected
areas. Kanther and Reciza emphasized that the goal was the voluntary
repatriation of the refugees. In the first stage, up to 90,000 people are
supposed to return home by June 1997, after which, Kanther says, all the
rest must also leave.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-7>
<H1>
Metals employers call for no increases for 5 years
</H1>
The employers in the metals industry are calling for no increases
to employees for 5 years. The president of the employers' association
Gesamtmetall, Stumpfe, said that the already high level of costs must be
held in check for 5 years if present jobs were to be made secure; work
costs could not rise; legislators would have to do their part as well.
Stumpfe continued, saying that in the coming round of wage negotiations,
the adaptability of the social state would need to be demonstrated. The
issue of sick pay would make or break the negotiations, he said,
predicting a series of superlatives in 1997. Stumpfe stated that there had
never been such a difficult package to negotiate.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-8>
<H1>
Metals union in Bavaria demands 5 percent increase
</H1>
The Bavarian branch of the metals union IG Metall will enter the
wage negotiations in 1997 with demands for a 5 percent increase in wages,
and job security measures. A meeting of the union's wage commission agreed
that the fight against unemployment would continue to be their top
priority. Local boss Neugebauer said the regulations governing sick pay
should be spelled out clearly in the new agreement, so that the full 100
percent of normal pay for sick workers would continue to be contractually
guaranteed.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-9>
<H1>
Many food producers use genetically altered soy
</H1>
Most German manufacturers of food products will continue to use
genetically altered soy despite last week's protests. An industry
organization announced this assessment in Bonn. The organization claims to
speak for several hundred producers and retailers.
According to Greenpeace, 45 international food producers, including
several major players, have so far announced that they will not employ
genetically altered soya beans.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-10>
<H1>
Technical Aid mission in Rwanda begins
</H1>
The German contingent of the technical aid mission to Rwanda
began its stint today. The first 41 aid workers left today for Nairobi.
They are to fly on to the Rwandan capital Kigali as soon as their
materials arrive. The primary goal of the UN-sponsored mission, which is
scheduled to last 3 months, is to provide the refugees from eastern Zaire
with fresh water.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-11>
<H1>
Doctors protest all over Germany against budgeting
</H1>
Throughout the country, more than 10,000 doctors
protested cuts to the health care system. Many practices were closed;
emergency wards took over the care of patients. The protest was aimed
primarily at the budgeting of medicines. Budgeting would mean that doctors
would, practically, have to pay for any medicine they prescribed,
themselves, effective immediately, because the budget for medicines for
the year is already used up. The doctors accused insurance agencies of
spending their money in the wrong places.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-12>
<H1>
Protests over "Day of Prayer and Penance"
</H1>
Christians all over Germany protested the cancellation of today's
"Day of Prayer and Penance" as an officially recognized holiday with
church services and ceremonies. The Protestant holiday was abolished in
every federal state except Saxony in 1994, in order to finance the
employers' share of nursing care insurance. In Schleswig-Holstein, Hesse,
and Bavaria, petitions are being circulated to try and force a referendum
on the issue.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-20-13>
<H1>
No more transfer fees for athletes after end of contract
</H1>
Transfer fees for athletes after their contracts run out will no
longer be possible even within Germany. According to a decision by the
federal labour court, the fees impede competition and the free choice of
one's workplace. The ruling only effects contracts which have run out or
been legally cancelled; changing teams while still under contract can
still be subject to transfer fees. The court in Kassel made explicit
reference to the so-called Bosman judgement of the European court, in
which transfer fees for moving to a team in another country within the
European Union after the expiration of a contract were declared illegal.

