<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-1>
<H1>
Brandenburg SPD continues discussions with both possible partners
</H1>
The SPD in Brandenburg plan to continue exploratory talks regarding
the formation of a coalition both with the CDU as well as with the
PDS. This according to an announcement by State Premier Stople from
Potsdam. So far the SPD has met with representatives of the PDS to
sound out similarities and differences of opinion. No decision has
been made so far. Stolpe did concede however that their differences
with the PDS were greater than those with the CDU. The discussions
with the CDU will continue on Thursday; those with the PDS on
Friday. Minister of Welfare Hildebrandt cautioned against an
association with the CDU.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-2>
<H1>
Manfred Weiss nominated new Bavarian Minister of Justice
</H1>
Bavarian State Premier Stoiber has officially nominated the deputy
leader of the CSU parliamentary faction, Manfred Weiss, as new
Minister of Justice. The participation of the 55 year old
represents a strengthening of the government's performance profile,
said Stoiber. Weiss will succeed Alfred Sauter in the office, who
was fired without notice this weekend in connection with scandal
involving multi-million DM losses at the Bavarian real estate
company "Landeswohnungs und Staedte Baugesellschaft" (LWS). The
state parliament must confirm Stoiber's nomination. The new deputy
faction leader will be Alois Glueck.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-3>
<H1>
Legal proceedings begin against former Vulkan board members
</H1>
One of the most involved legal proceedings in Germany since the end of World
War II began today before the Bremen Regional Court. Former director
Hennemann and three former board members of the Bremen based Vulkan
Verbund AG company have refused to give testimony, according to statements
given by their lawyers. Previously, they discounted accusations
that they engaged in a breach of trust. The accused are charged
with taking assistance funds in the amount of 854 million DM which
were in trust for two eastern shipyards in the holding group, and
transferring it to ailing subsidiaries in the west. 31 days of
hearings are planned for the proceedings.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-4>
<H1>
Schroeder rejects austerity changes despite poor election results
</H1>
Despite poor showings by the SPD in the Saarland and Brandenburg
elections, Chancellor and SPD party leader Gerhardt Schroeder
rejected further reductions in the government's austerity package.
Schroeder told the newspaper "Bildzeitung" that the overall level of
savings and the basic outline of the program are not subject to
change. As Chancellor he cannot make important decisions dependent
on the outcome of elections, which in Germany take place on average
every 90 days. On Thursday, the Bundesrat will open discussion with
a first reading of sections of the austerity package. Tax
simplification and more family friendly tax laws as well as the
ecology tax reform are up for debate.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-5>
<H1>
DGB presents alternative pension proposal
</H1>
The German Trade Union Federation (DGB) has put forward an
alternative to the government's pension proposal. Deputy Union
Chief Engelen-Kefer told the newspaper "Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung"
that the Federation would increase the pension index by 1.7 percent next
year;
a point higher than the inflation adjustment provided by Minister of
Labor Riester. The government rejected the proposal. It would lead
to higher pension contributions, contrary to the government's plans,
said a spokesperson for Minister of Labor Riester from Berlin.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-08-6>
<H1>
Outgoing EU Commission disparages German labor policies
</H1>
The outgoing EU Commission has given bad marks to the labor policies
of the German government. Substantial effort on Germany's part will
be necessary to reach the standards of other EU members, said EU
Labor Commissioner Flynn from Brussels, after what will presumably
be the last gathering of the old EU Commission. Developments in the
EU taken as a whole are positive however, he said. According to
Flynn, in the past year approximately 1.8 million new jobs were
created. The EU Commission praised the efforts undertaken by Great
Britain, Denmark and Sweden.

