<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-1>
<H1>
Unemployment situation unchanged
</H1>
In August there have almost been as many people without employment as in July
- stagnation on the labor market.  Unemployment went down by only 10,000 in
August, reducing the total to 3,901,000 which is still 323,000 more than one
year ago.  The regional variation is striking.  In East Germany, the number
of jobless people dropped by 24,000, in West Germany, it increased by 14,000.
The reason for this are mainly the different vacation dates, Bernhard Jagoda,
President of the Federal Labor Office, explained.  In the New States, thanks
to federal employment measures, the seasonal upturn for fall has already
kicked in in August, whereas in the Old States this effect was barely
noticeable, partly also due to the fact that school vacations ended later
than in 1995.  Nationwide, the unemployment rate remained at 10.2%.  Measured
at what should be seasonally expected, this result is unsatisfactory, for
normally unemployment should decrease significantly in August.  Jagoda
concludes that this summer nothing has changed with the slow economic trend
and with the structural difficulties on the job market.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-2>
<H1>
Chancellor campaigns for more apprentice positions
</H1>
 Within the framework of his "apprenticeship initiative", Chancellor
Kohl has met with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce.  The background
to the talks is the tense situation on the apprenticeship market.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-3>
<H1>
DBG demands solidarity fee for companies that do not train apprentices
</H1>
The National Trade Union Federation (DGB) has demanded a federal law which
imposes a solidarity penalty on companies which do not train apprentices.
DGB board member Regina Gerner said it is unacceptable that 70 percent of all
companies no longer participate in the training of young professionals.  She
accused the Chancellor of inviting industry leaders for chat rounds and of
accepting empty promises, instead of acting.  However, very different ideas
circulate about how many apprentice positions are actually missing.  While
the government, based on the latest figures by the Federal Labor Office at
Nuremberg, assumes that by the end of the year another 20,000 openings will
become available in order to satisfy demand, DGB board member Regina Gerner
demonstrated this morning that even in December between 80,000 and 120,000
young people will still be without apprenticeship.  She said that the reason
why the statistics look so different is because unsuccessful applicants would
not report to the Labor Offices any more.  The DGB therefore urged more
insistently than ever to finance professional training by distributing costs
among all companies.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-4>
<H1>
Kinkel: No cracks in Western Alliance because of Iraq crisis
</H1>
The evaluation of the U.S. intervention in Iraq is not fully consensual among
the countries of Western Europe.  Despite the critical position of France,
however, Foreign Minister Kinkel does not see a crack in the Western
Alliance.  Kinkel said "one has to give the totally unpredictable Saddam
Hussein a rap over the knuckles".  The Iraqi aggression in Kurdistan, costing
more then 100 lives, could not have remained without response.  To this
extent, the Federal Government agrees to the U.S. reaction, Kinkel said.
France, on the other hand, had criticized the unilateral action of the
U.S.A., because of a lack of an endorsing resolution by the U.N. Security
Council.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-5>
<H1>
Rexrodt: Economy back to a steady course
</H1>
In the opinion of Federal Minister of Economics Rexrodt, the German economy
has overcome the dip in growth.  The preliminary results about economic
performance for the first half of 1996 show that the government's growth
projections had been correct, Kinkel said.  The Gross National Product in
Germany increased by 1.2% in the first half of the year, according to the
Federal Department of Statistics, Wiesbaden.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-6>
<H1>
Fischer and Mueller confirmed as spokespersons of Alliance 90/The Greens
</H1>
Joschka Fischer and Kerstin Mueller will remain at the head of the
parliamentary group of Alliance 90/The Greens.  Fischer received 32 out of
the 45 votes cast, a significantly worse result than two years ago.
Mueller's mandate was confirmed with 31 votes.  Votes against Fischer
originated undoubtedly in the party's left wing, who opposes the economic
policy of the "Realos" [movement within The Green party, based on realpolitik
rather than ideology].  Moreover, Fischer's leadership is criticized by the
leftists as too authoritarian.  Whatever the internal quarrels might be, the
call for the reelected spokespersons now is to roll up their sleeves and face
the federal parliamentary elections in two years.  Fischer's goal: A
transition of power to a red-green majority.  He said that this required
unity, therefore one should stop the argument that went on this summer.  This
criticism was mostly meant for Juergen Triptin, spokesman of the national
party board, who is considered leftist, and who has accused the Realos of
siding with the government in the last weeks.  Trettin's faux pas displeased
the Realos of the parliamentary group, so that they argued with him when he
visited the party's seclusion meeting at a venerable hotel at Godesberg, on
the banks of the Rhine river.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-7>
<H1>
Primakov meets Kohl
</H1>
 A meeting with Chancellor Kohl concludes the two-day visit of Russian
Foreign Minister Primakov to Germany.  The most important points of the talks
were said to be issues of European security, the relations between NATO and
Russia, and the Iraq crisis.  Kohl intends to travel to Russia on Saturday,
in order to speak with President Yeltsin.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-8>
<H1>
Former assets of IG Farben Chemie not to be returned
</H1>
 The liquidators of IG Farben Chemie cannot legally claim that
assets in the former GDR [German Democratic Republic] be returned.  This was
decided by the Federal Constitutional Court.  A constitutional complaint
opposing this point of view was rejected by the judges.  The liquidators had
attempted to reintegrate seventeen companies, located in Saxony-Anhalt, into
the corporation dissolved after World War II.  The Constitutional Court ruled
that the decisions of lower courts are legitimate.  The latter had assumed
that IG Farben had been expropriated, based on a law passed by the Control
Council late in 1945.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-9>
<H1>
Acquittal in salary affair of Magdeburg
</H1>
 The trial against the former Minister President Muench of
Saxony-Anhalt and his Welfare Minister at the time, Mr. Schreiber, regarding
the so-called salary affair ended with acquittal of the defendants.  The
Magdeburg Regional Court ruled that it could not be proven that Muench and
Schreiber had obtained excessive salaries by making false statements.  The
verdicts follow the proposals by defense and prosecution.  The salary affair
had provoked the resignation of the State Government of Saxony-Anhalt in
1993.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-10>
<H1>
Trial against Peter Graf has opened
</H1>
One of the most spectacular trials in the history of German jurisdiction has
opened today before the Regional Court of Mannheim.  Almost exactly thirteen
months after his arrest, Peter Graf stands trial for suspected tax fraud.
The father of tennis champion Steffi Graf is said to have avoided DM 20
million in taxes.  The proceedings began with Peter Graf's declaring the
innocence of his daughter Steffi.  He said Steffi had not been knowledgeable
about the tax deals.  He alone had had complete authority over the family
assets.  The afternoon of today's proceedings were reserved for statements by
co-defendant Joachim Eckhardt.  The 49-year-old ex-tax consultant of the Graf
family stated in detail his relation to the Graf family and his contribution
to the "tax saving plan" of Peter Graf.  The beginning of the trial, however,
was centered around Peter Graf's own statement in which he made strong
accusations against the taxing authorities.  If he had been notified about
the suspicion of tax fraud early on, a criminal act could have been avoided
altogether, he said.  He feels treated most unfairly.  According to Graf,
initially the family had planned to move abroad, motivated by tax-related
reasons.  After the tax authorities had announced they would treat the tennis
family in an understanding way, the family had discarded that plan.  The
58-year-old conceded to have judged too naively the tax saving models by his
consultants.  The Graf trial is to continue tomorrow morning.  So far, 30
days of proceedings are scheduled until December 13.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-11>
<H1>
Trouble with outdoor experiment of genetically altered rape
</H1>
 Difficulties have arisen in an outdoor trial of genetically
engineered rape.  According to The Greens in Bavaria, manipulated genes are
said to have been transferred to other plants.  The Greens refer to the reply
of the Bavarian State Government to a corresponding parliamentary enquiry.
The consequences for the environment are unpredictable.  The manipulated
genes were intended to make the rape plant resistant against a herbicide.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-05-12>
<H1>
Polish-German soccer game / Government condemned riots
</H1>
A friendship game between the national soccer teams of Poland and Germany
ended last night with a score of 2:0 for Germany.  Oliver Bierhoff and
Juergen Klinsmann shot the goals.  Klinsmann thereby achieved the 40th goal
for the Germany national team, in his 90th international game.  The Federal
Government has sharply condemned the riots by about 300 hooligans that
accompanied the game.  A spokesman of the Ministry of Interior called the
events shameful.  German vandals had incited the beatings and shouted Nazi
slogans.  The Polish Foreign Ministry declined comment.  This would only
attach unnecessary weight to the skinheads' deeds.

