<DOC de-news-1998-04-09-1>
<H1>
FDP to push "ecological market economy" in its platform
</H1>
What is the FDP=92s electoral platform like? According to the
daily newspaper "Bildzeitung" it includes an extension of
working age. The liberals want to reduce both social
security contributions and retirement pay. FDP say they
know nothing about this. The official line is: As yet there
is no platform worked out. There will be nothing new from
FDP, much less confirmation of isolated items supposedly
contained in a platform, before end of April. Whatever is
published today in a tabloid paper cannot be an excerpt
from a new electoral platform inasmuch as none exists as
yet. In a statement rushed to the press, general secretary
Westerwelle explains that for the time being all that
exists is suggestions from technical committees and from
sub-factions of the party. These have been tabulated and
there was an outline discussion about them. What really
will go into the platform will be decided by a special FDP
task force chaired by Westerwelle himself over the coming
two weeks. The task force will submit a draft to party
leadership by the end of this month. In FDP leadership
circles the notion that phrases taken out of context may
have been leaked to the press as trial balloons to keep the
FDP in the public's mind is not excluded. But until the
platform convention takes place late in June all
publications and deductions around the thematic center of
gravity of the electoral platform are purely speculative,
says Westerwelle.
Still, some points of the disavowed list of issues are in
accord with what FDP politicians have of late announced.
Chief among these are the call for reduced social security
contributions and retirement pay, the proposal of a
3-tiered tax rate with a maximum of 35%, and the intent to
guarantee a claim to German citizenship to children of
resident aliens.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-09-2>
<H1>
Serial gene tests in Christina rape and murder case
</H1>
Saliva specimens from several thousand men are to be
collected today in the largest such operation in the
country's history. Police expect to thereby get a clue to
the identity of the murderer of 11-year-old Christina. The
girl had been kidnapped over 3 weeks ago on her way home,
raped and then strangled. Police expect to obtain 18,000
specimens; more than 200 policemen are combing through 12
cities and villages in a circle around Christina's home.
Posters in fast-food stores, supermarkets and filling
stations publicize the action calling on all male
inhabitants between 18 and 30 years of age to report to
designated schools, gyms, and leisure homes and submit
to the test. Passport, ID card or driver's license will have to be
carried to establish identity. All absentees will be
checked individually by police. The collection of specimen
itself takes no more than a few seconds. Saliva will be
collected by means of a cotton swab from 4 distinct areas
of the buccal cavity. Participants will have to sign a
written statment that they volunteered for the test. The
collected specimens will be individually packed in small
tubes and compared to trhe genetical "fingerprints" of the
murderer. According to the special commission in charge of
the case this will take up to 4 weeks. The cost of
Germany's largest genetic test series is as yet an unknown
quantity. There are several steps to each test; the initial
one costs around DM 50.00, the fine tuning runs up to about
DM 1,000.00. Police say this is not an action brought about
by not knowing what else to do. They strongly suspect the
murderer to be a resident of the area. In parallel they are
following up on about 4,000 existing clues. They cannot
guarantee the genetic test action will be successful.
Police have also asked the clerics acting in the area to
ask for additional information and offer themselves as
mediators on occasion of their Good Friday services. Up to
now, few people have appeared to submit to the test, but
police expect to have all 18,000 specimens by tomorrow
night. They expect this action to end mutual suspiciousness
among residents.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-09-3>
<H1>
Large scale conflagration at Fuerth toy plant
</H1>
The state of disaster alarm in Staden borough was cancelled
 around noon. The fire started during last night.
10 workers of the toy factory were afflicted by smoke.
Police had asked the population to close their doors and
windows for fear of possible poisonous vapors. But chemical
tests showed no poisonous substances. According to a
company spokeswoman material damage exceeded DM 100
million. The fire brigade succeeded in controlling the fire in the
morning hours after several hours of intense struggle.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-09-4>
<H1>
New facts about Scientology
</H1>
The notorious organization "Scientology" apparently has a
secret service of its own. The Hamburg branch of the German
Domestic Intelligence Agency in a recent report about the
organization and methods of the so-called "Office of
Special Affairs" stated that the designation "Secret
Service" is adequate in view of the fact that the OSA
employs tactics and methods peculiar to espionage and
counter-espionage. The OSA is in charge of protecting
scientology from governmental actions, and from private
persons acting as moles as well as persecuting and
intimidating critics.
Basically, so the Hamburg report, Scientology pursues aims
of political extremism against democratic freedom and
order, with the OSA as a spearhead.
The report expressly differentiates between the
organization's functionaries and ordinary members.
Authorities want to clarify matters and not start a
witch hunt against persons who look for their personal
well-being within Scientology, says Senator for the
interior Hartmuth Wrocklage. The Hamburg branch of the
German Domestic Intelligence Agency found the number
of members far below the organization's own claims.
The estimate is around 10,000 countrywide. They conclude
that at this time, Scientology does not constitute a personal
or financial danger. Nevertheless, observation will continue.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-09-5>
<H1>
Union parties reach consensus on energy tax
</H1>
CDU and CSU reached a consensus on the energy tax
question. Secretaries general Hintze and Protzner, in a joint
statement, announced that talks for establishing a common
electoral platform will continue immediately after the Easter
recess. Both secretaries general issued their declaration in
complete accord with the party chairmen, chancellor Kohl
and finance minister Waigel as well as Bundestag faction l
eader Schaeuble. On energy tax, both parties stand against
isolated national action in favor of an encompassing and
harmonized European policy that would be neutral on
expense and competitiveness.

