<DOC de-news-1999-03-12-1>
<H1>
Messrs Eichel and Schroeder to stand in for Mr Lafontaine
</H1>
A day after Mr Oskar Lafontaine resigned from his political positions,
directions are clear for who will succeed him. State Premier Eichel
will become Federal Finance Minister, once the new state government has
been set up on 7 April. Until then Federal Economics Minister Mueller
will stand in. Chancellor Schroeder got 23 votes making him the preferred
candidate for head of the SPD, and he is expected to be confirmed during
a special Party Congress on 11 April. Mr Schroeder announced that he wanted
to develop the SPD's goals and aims in an open debate. He would not question
the coalition with the Greens Party, and also ruled out a cabinet
reshuffle. He also ruled out temporarily shelving the new tax-laws (they
had already been passed by parliament, yet not the Upper House (Bundesrat)),
something business and the opposition parties wanted him to do. The new
laws are expected to pass the Upper House (Bundesrat) next week.
Mr Schroeder, however, conceded that there may be modifications, something
the coalition partner, the Greens, were also inclined to do. Head of the
parliamentary group Schlauch said that business now expected some positive
signals. The opposition parties did not believe that politics would change
after Mr Lafontaine's resignation. Mr Schaeuble, head of the CDU, stated
that not Mr Lafontaine was to blame for the current chaos, but rather
Chancellor Schroeder. Prices rose markedly on Frankfurt's stock-exchange,
reacting to Mr Lafontaine's resignation, the DAX rising by as much as 5%.
Mainly shares of energy generators and insurance companies were in high
demand.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-12-2>
<H1>
Unions see a chance for a fresh start
</H1>
Mr Lafontaine's resignation fanned the debate on economic policy once
again. Business lobbyists and especially energy generators and insurance
companies wanted a re-think on the reforms, mentioning "a real fresh
start". Others warned Chancellor Schroeder against fixing a few things to
help the big companies and energy generators. His economic policies should
rather favour medium-sized companies and jobs.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-12-3>
<H1>
No contact between Messrs Schroeder and Lafontaine
</H1>
After Mr Lafontaine's resignation Chancellor Schroeder had tried, in vain,
to contact him directly, according to the Chancellor's spokesperson Heye.
Apparently he did not want to talk to him. According to Mr Heye they had
tried, but had had no success. Mr Lafontaine had only left a short written
note telling the Chancellor that he wished to resign. He's currently living
at his Saarbruecken residence. There still is no information about the
reasons for his unexpected resignation.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-12-4>
<H1>
Unions critical of Mr Lafontaine's resignation
</H1>
Head of the Metalworkers' Union Zwickel was very critical about Mr
Lafontaine's resignation. He said: "Social-democrats don't just walk away".
Many workers had voted for this government so they could solve problems,
not become a problem themselves. Resigning was sending the wrong political
signals. And he added that this would be one of the first triumphs for
business. Mr Zwickel asked government to stick to their course.
Mr Wiesehuegel, head of the Construction Workers' Union, said that this was
a severe blow for workers. Mr Lafontaine had been very close to the unions,
backing a demand-oriented policy.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-12-5>
<H1>
Mr Yehudi Menuhin passed away
</H1>
Today Yehudi Menuhin, probably this century's most famous violinist, died
in a Berlin hospital, of heart failure. Mr Menuhin, born on 22 April 1916
in New York, had his first rehearsals at age 7 and earned international
fame. When 10 years old he rehearsed in Europe, and at age 12 he recorded
his own records. During 7 decades he travelled the globe, for music and
global understanding. After 1945, he was among the first to back
reconciliation with Germans. President Herzog called Mr Menuhin one of this
century's greatest musicians, and said the world would be poorer without
him.

