<DOC de-news-1999-10-31-1>
<H1>
Declaration signed by Catholic and Lutheran churches
</H1>
The Lutheran and Catholic churches have resolved the main cause
for their chasm after nearly 500 years. The heads of the Vatican and the
Lutheran World Alliance signed a declaration reconciling differing
doctrines at a celebratory mass in Augsburg. Thus the century-old issue
about the salvation of man has been put to rest by both churches. Catholic
Cardinal Cassidy and Bishop Krause of Braunschweig honored the event in
their sermons. Krause stressed that with this declaration both churches
agree in a point that led to the chasm 469 years ago, namely the question
of God's relationship to man and man's relationship to God. He went on to
say that there were more points in common between the churches than
differences. Cardinal Cassidy explained that this ecumenical document
significantly boosts the effort of resurrecting unity among followers of
the Christian faith. In his Angelus speech in Rome, the Pope honored the
agreement as a milestone on a rocky road to the reconstruction of full
unity among Christians. He continued to say that the end of all
confessional chasms of the second millennium is very near.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-31-2>
<H1>
German States to ban beef imports
</H1>
Several German states plan to use their leverage in the Upper House
of Parliament to prevent the reintroduction of British beef to Germany,
according to several State Ministers of Agriculture quoted in the weekly
"Welt am Sonntag." Bavaria's Minister Miller made it clear that lifting the
ban on imports cannot be risked as long as there are new occurrences of BSE
in Great Britain. His colleague, Ms. Hoehn of North Rhine Westphalia,
maintained that 50 people have already died of BSE, as well as 3000 new
cases of BSE in cattle this year. She said that this is the reason why she
will fight the import of British Beef and for consumer protection. Ms.
Steiblin, Agricultural Minister of Baden-Wuerttemberg, was convinced that
the States wouldn't budge: "We don't want that stuff here." The ban on
imports requires a resolution in the Upper House. Last Friday a EU
commission of experts had declared British beef to be safe and called upon
Germany and France to reinstate its import.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-31-3>
<H1>
President Rau speaks out for environmental protection
</H1>
President Rau warned of a declining involvement in the protection
of the environment. During the celebration for the German Environmental
Award Mr. Rau said environmental protection didn't mean the abandonment of
industrial society but rather a constructive use of its resources. The
prize was awarded to both Professor Wilhelm Bartlodt of Bonn and textile
entrepreneur Klaus Steilmann.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-31-4>
<H1>
Schroeder favors integrating China into the G8 and WTO
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder proposed to admit China into the G8
organization. Kicking off his Asian trip, Schroeder also demanded that
China soon be admitted to the World Trade Organization (WTO). In Japan, the
first leg of his tour, the Chancellor visited branches of Daimler-Chrysler
and BMW-Rover.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-31-5>
<H1>
Hakkinen defends world title
</H1>
Finnish driver Mika Hakkinen defended his Formula 1 world title.
The McLaren-Mercedes driver finished the last race of the season ahead of
Michael Schumacher and Eddie Irvine, both on Ferrari. Heinz-Harald Frentzen
of Moenchengladbach finished fourth for Jordan in Suzuka and secured third
place overall.

