<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-1>
<H1>
Kohl calls for European-wide solution for motorway tolls
</H1>
In connection with the hot election issue of the possible introduction
of motorway tolls, Chancellor Kohl (CDU), has called for a
European-wide solution to the problem. He said that drivers should not
be subject to any further charges but, as tolls are charged in other
countries, there was a need for action on the issue. Gerhard
Schroeder, the SPD's candidate for Chancellor, has also rejected the
levelling of tolls, saying that he too did not think that car drivers
should have to pay any more than they do at present. On Wednesday, the
EU Commission presented plans for the regulation of traffic charges,
including the proposal that commercial road users should contribute to
the upkeep of the roads.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-2>
<H1>
Trittin in favour of taxing share profits
</H1>
Juergen Trittin, a spokesman for the leadership of the Greens, has
proposed that profits made from share transactions and the sale of
property should be taxed. In an interview with the newspaper
'Rhein-Zeitung', he said that all ways of making money should be
treated in the same way and that any reform of the tax system should
abolish the current ruling that profits made from selling shares are
tax-free if the sale occurs over six months after the shares were
purchased. This suggestion was rejected by the CDU/CSU, the FDP and
the SPD equally. The leader of the FDP, Wolfgang Gerhard, said that it
would be a blow to small investors, and Joachim Poss, a spokesman on
financial affairs for the SPD, warned that such a move might weaken
the shares market.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-3>
<H1>
Stollman calls for radical reform of tax and benefits
</H1>
Jost Stollmann, the SPD candidate for Finance Minister, has called for
a radical reform of the tax and benefit system. In an interview with
the 'Bild' newspaper, he said that the dramatic changes that have
occurred in people's professional lives and careers mean that the
social security system can no longer be financed through earned income
contributions. Stollman said that the system should be funded through
more indirect charges and less direct taxation. However, Oskar
Lafontaine, the leader of the SPD, dismissed as "complete rubbish" a
report in 'Stern' magazine which claimed that the SPD was planning to
raise Value Added Tax in order to lower the benefit contributions paid
by employers.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-4>
<H1>
New model to secure employment in Lower Saxony's metal industry
</H1>
The representatives of employers and unions in Lower Saxony's metal
industry have agreed on a unique contract as a means of securing
employment. According to the contract, employees will receive a bonus
if they agree to a cut in their hours so that new jobs can be created.
It was suggested that the a worker who gave up half of their hours
would receive around DM 12,000. An organisation called the "Alliance
for Employment" with a budget of DM 10 million has been created to
finance the pilot project. The new contract also implements the
'old-age part-time agreement' which has been put into practice in the
other contract-agreement areas in the metal industry in west Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-5>
<H1>
Appeal over Luebeck arson 'not guilty' verdict
</H1>
The Federal High Court has been hearing an appeal in the arson case in
which Safwan Eid, from Lebanon, was found not guilty of having set
fire to an asylum-seekers' home in Luebeck in January 1996. The
defence and the Public Prosecutor's Office are moving for the not
guilty verdict to be sustained. The family of one of the victims are
asking for the judgement to be rescinded; they want a judicial
decision on whether certain recordings of Eid's conversations whilst
in pretrial detention, which allegedly point towards his guilt, should
have been presented in court. A decision is expected on Friday.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-6>
<H1>
Case against Kirch for tax evasion is dropped
</H1>
The Public Prosecutor's Office has dropped its investigation into the
media magnate Leo Kirch and two of his advisors on suspicion of tax
evasion, saying that there is not sufficient evidence for a charge.
The investigation has been running since 1995, and the Office
explained that it has taken to so long because a great deal of the
investigation was done abroad. Kirch was suspected of having avoided
paying around DM 400 million in tax through a series of bogus
transactions in Switzerland.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-22-7>
<H1>
Frankfurt court decision ignites discussion on euthanasia
</H1>
The decision of Frankfurt's Higher Regional Court on a euthanasia case
has provoked further debate. The president of the Conference of German
Bishops, Lehmann, has said that the judgement blurs the distinction
between passively helping someone to die and active euthanasia on
demand. The German Association of Churches warned against allowing the
courts to decide on the legality of euthanasia. The German Hospice
Foundation advises people to draw up a written disposition with the
aid of a patients' solicitor as soon as possible so that patients can
have an influence on their treatment, even when they can no longer
make their wishes known.

