<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-1>
<H1>
SPD national party conference begins
</H1>
At the start of its national party conference, the SPD has strengthened its
commitment to replacing the government in the parliamentary elections next
autumn. In his opening speech, the SPD leader Oskar Lafontaine declared
that mistakes had been made in past years, but now the SPD was back. "We
are the future party of government." He accused the governing coalition of
taking the wrong direction in every important policy area. 15 years of
government leadership of Chancellor Kohl had lead to the loss of community
spirit and social responsibility in Germany. Lafontaine demanded European
solutions for all new societal challenges, and above all for the fight
against unemployment. Once again he defended the blockade of the previous
taxation plans of the government, which he said would have led to budget
shortfalls of DM 45 billion. The SPD will also block nonsense in the
future; that is its duty. At the same time the SPD leader repeated his
offer to the government of cooperation in pensions and tax policy. He went
on to say that the governing coalition has acted wrongly in all important
areas in the past few years; the coalition's economic policy has resulted
in the highest level of unemployment and national debt since the war. If
the target of companies now only consists of increasing their market value
and not in safeguarding jobs, if young people stand outside the door at the
start of their working life, then this is no longer a humane society. The
SPD, on the other hand, wants to see a renewed economy. But it also says
yes to redundancy protection and continued pay and no to reductions in
unemployment benefits. Lafontaine rejected the regionalisation of social
security contributions. The needs of society must be met at a European
level and not with "Bavarian concepts in little Germany". The party
conference should agree on a basic concept for economic and social policy,
with the title "Innovations for Germany", which has mainly been developed
by the state premier of Lower Saxony, Gerhard Schroeder. In an article in
the Bild newspaper before the start of the conference, Lafontaine called on
delegates in the to support the plan of his competitor for the SPD
candidate for Chancellor. The paper will outline the central reform
projects of the SPD. Before the conference the federal business leader
Muentefehring again made it clear that question of who will be the
candidate for chancellor will be decided after the election in Lower
Saxony, at the election party conference in April. In the evening,
Lafontaine was re-elected as party leader with 463 votes out of 497, ie.
with 93 percent of the vote. Scharping, Rau and Thierse were confirmed in
their offices as deputy leaders. In one confrontational vote, the Bavarian
state premier Schmidt won through as a further deputy leader, against
Hertha Daeubler- Gmehlin. She also lost the second vote against Heidemarie
Wieczoreck-Zeul.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-2>
<H1>
Study of German carbon-dioxide output published
</H1>
The federal Environment Minister, Angela Merkel, wants to stick to the goal
of reducing Germany's carbon-dioxide output by 25 percent by 2005. Today
she presented a scientific report, which confirms the feasibility of the
target, but which also states that further measures on top of those already
in place are required. These would have to include industry, power stations
and private households. The proposed bundle of measures includes regulatory
measures such as higher insulation standards, reducing speed limits on
motorways, and state aids, for example to promote the use of renewable
energies.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-3>
<H1>
Confession at the start of trial for the murder of Natalie
</H1>
The trial for the murder of seven year old Natalie Astner began with a full
confession from the accused. Before the Augsburg State Court, the 29 year
old man, who had previous convictions for sexual crimes, confirmed all
prosecution allegations and gave a detailed account of the series of
events. The parents of the victim left the court room as he began his
account, the father cursing and threatening the accused. In the afternoon
the procedure was closed to the public. It will continue tomorrow, and the
sentence will be passed on 10 December. According to his own account and
the prosecution allegations, the accused had abducted, abused and murdered
the girl.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-4>
<H1>
Student protests spread
</H1>
The student protests against the bad financial situation at German
universities and colleges are spreading. Classes at 67 universities and
colleges are being boycotted according to the students. Today, strike
actions focused on Bavaria. About 20,000 students rallied in Munich and
Wuerzburg. They carried mock coffins, laying Education to rest.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-5>
<H1>
"La Belle" trial: main witness of the prosecution retracts testimony
</H1>
The main witness of the prosecution, Musbah Abulgasem Eter, has retracted
his testimony in the proceedings of the bombing of the Berlin discotheque
"La Belle" in 1986. He said he had been misunderstood in his first
examinations. The accused did not belong to the group that laid the bombs
and the Libyan embassy in East-Berlin had nothing to do with the attack. At
the time of the attack Eter apparently worked for the Libyan secret
service. Later, he implicated the accused and his former superiors.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-6>
<H1>
Collective bargaining in newspaper sector becomes more intense
</H1>
The collective bargaining for about 17,000 newspaper editors has
intensified. The German Association of Journalists threatened today to
start unlimited strikes. The fifth bargaining round was tabled last night
without any result. This provoked new warning strikes in several federal
states. The employers want to continue talks on January, 7. The media union
and the journalist association called this delay tactics and demanded an
earlier date.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-7>
<H1>
Large cut of housing construction subsidy in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
Subsidies for new housing will be cut severely next year in
Baden-Wuerttemberg. Economics Minister Walter Doering announced that the
state government would supply only DM292 million to promote the
construction of apartments and houses. This equals a cut of about one
third. The construction of rental apartments has been hit hardest as the
number of subsidised apartments decreases from 2500 to 900.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-02-8>
<H1>
Snowfall in the south cause obstruction and accidents
</H1>
Snowfalls in Germany's southwest have caused obstruction and accidents that
killed at least one person. Several persons were injured according to
police. The Rhine valley autobahn near Tehningen had to be closed for
several hours after an accident involving six trucks.

