<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-1>
<H1>
Investigation in kidnapping of Fiszmann
</H1>
 Two of the five men arrested yesterday in connection with the
kidnapping of the businessman Mr. Fiszmann were released today.  Public
prosecution refused to give any further details.  The remaining three were
presented to a judge at the committal hearing.  The search for the
businessman, who was kidnapped on October 1, has been unsuccessful so far.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-2>
<H1>
Pension Plan Agencies have been paying out too much
</H1>
 In many cases, the Pension Plan Agencies have been writing higher
pension checks than necessary.  The Federal Court of Auditors announced in
its annual report that mistakes in computing pensions had been made during
the transition from GDR law to Federal Pension Law.  In 400 investigated
cases, a total of 10 million DM was paid in excess.  This amount is likely to
increase since thousands of incorrect conversions are expected to be found.
The Federal Court of Auditors also found 600 cases in which over many years,
pensions have been paid twice, also amounting to about 10 million DM in
losses.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-3>
<H1>
Tax reform and gasoline tax debate
</H1>
The FDP, who was believed to support an early tax reform, voted against such
a request in the Bundestag today.  The request came from the SPD and demanded
that tax equality be restored already for 1998, in view of heavy expenses.
The FDP does not agree with its coalition partner CDU on a raise in gasoline
tax, though.  Finance Minister Waigel has not abandoned the idea of an
increase yet.  Waigel stated that he would not be the one to make a speedy
consensus on this issue within the coalition fail.  Thus far, mainly the FDP
has resisted the idea to further burden drivers with a higher tax.  Waigel,
however, does not see many alternatives, since a budget hole of 5 to 7
billion DM needs to be filled, and further cuts in welfare segments are not
possible.  The picture of the upcoming grand tax reform is clearer.  The
reform will go in force in January of 1999.  Moving the effective date ahead
by a year, as demanded by the opposition, is unrealistic, according to the
CDU.  The FDP has also shifted to this standpoint, even though they used to
push towards a date before the elections.  The SPD accused the FDP of having
yielded once again and will therefore continue to fight for an earlier
reform.  The current system is unfair and intolerable for people, in the eyes
of the SPD.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-4>
<H1>
SPD: The federal government is destroying the pension system
</H1>
The SPD has accused the government of slashing the current pension system by
continuously proposing new cut.  During a topical debate in the Bundestag,
the SPD representative Ms. Masche said the welfare agencies need to be
released from dealing with non-insurance services.  This would also eliminate
thoughts about raising the retirement age.  The vice-chairman of the CDU, Mr.
Geissler, underscored that CDU and CSU support the current pension system,
however it needs to be revised like any other welfare plan.  Geissler
clarified that the CDU does not intend to increase the pension age to 67.
Corresponding statements by the CDU representatives Mr. Louven and Mr. Kauda
are only personal opinions.  Nevertheless, FDP welfare expert Ms. Babel wants
to take a closer look at their suggestions.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-5>
<H1>
Herzog visiting France
</H1>
The official visit of President Roman Herzog in France was today entirely
dedicated to Europe-related issues.  Herzog called on the Germans and the
French to remain on the same course with European policy.  Political
perseverance is necessary to implement the economic and monetary union.  At
the same time, the President urged everybody to austerity.  The official
visitor took the French to the task: While only a few hundred meters away,
50,000 union activists protested against the austerity measures of the Juppe
Administration, President Herzog contradicted the wide-spread notion that the
Maastricht criteria for a common European Currency alone force policymakers
in Bonn and Paris to cut spending and jobs.  "The truth is that for decades,
we have lived beyond our means", Roman Herzog said.  "We have to put that
back in order if we don't want to leave behind a huge pile of debts for our
children."  Europe turned out to be the most important topic of the official
visit.  In the afternoon, encouraged by the President, historians and legal
experts from both countries investigated the effects of the French Revolution
and the German Unification on Europe.  Herzog had brought with him a group of
former GDR human rights activists to Paris, considering this is the first
official visit of a German President to France after the fall of the Berlin
wall.  In the evening, Herzog and Construction Minister Toepfer opened an
exhibition showing how the formerly separated city of Berlin is gradually
evolving into a new metropolis and new German capital.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-6>
<H1>
German-French peace force planned for Bosnia
</H1>
According to Foreign Minister Kinkel, Germany and France want to contribute a
joint contingent to a new peace force for Bosnia.  The planning phase is
already under way, Kinkel said in Paris today, during the official visit of
Federal President Herzog.  A UN mandate as well as parliamentary consent is
still required for the troops.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-7>
<H1>
Ruettgers: 100,000 apprentice positions have to be created
</H1>
 In the opinion of Federal Minister Ruettgers, businesses and
administrations will have to create more then 100,000 apprentice positions
over the next years.  In a related parliamentary debate, Ruettgers said the
number of high-school graduates in Germany will increase continuously until
2005.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-17-8>
<H1>
German language skills facilitate immigration for Ethnic Germans
</H1>
Ethnic Germans living abroad that possess solid German language skills can
expect faster acceptance of their immigration applications.  This was
announced by Mr. Waffenschmidt, administration official in charge of Ethnic
German issues.  His reasoning goes that poor language capabilities are the
biggest hurdle for integration in Germany.

