<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-1>
<H1>
NATO continues bombing of Yugoslav targets
</H1>
After two weeks of NATO attacks on Yugoslav targets, there is no end to
the Kosovo crisis in sight. US President Clinton said today in Washington
that NATO would only end its bombing if Yugoslav President Milosevic met
all of the Alliance's demands. That is: withdrawal of all Yugoslav troops
from Kosovo, allowed return of all refugees, and acceptance of an
international peace force. Clinton said the offer of a cease-fire was not
enough. US Defence Minister Cohen expressed much the same sentiment, as he
met with NATO Secretary-General Solana and NATO's European Forces
Commander Clarke today in Brussels. Cohen announced that the bombing would
again be escalated over the next few days.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-2>
<H1>
France, Britain, and Italy reject Kosovo refugee quota
</H1>
The member countries of the EU have not yet reached an agreement on the
distribution of Kosovo refugees in Europe. As came out on the periphery of
the meeting of EU Internal Affairs Ministers in Luxembourg, France,
Britain, and Italy reject the idea of specifying concrete numbers of
refugees to be accommodated. They also decline to commit to accepting
Kosovo refugees, fearing that to do so would be playing into the hands of
Yugoslav President Milosevic. The EU ministers did agree to concentrate
their aid efforts on the front lines.
Bonn has agreed to temporarily accommodate 10,000 refugees. The first 60
of them arrived in Nuremberg this afternoon. German Armed Forces aircraft
carrying 500 more are supposed to follow before tomorrow morning.
The situation in the Balkans, meanwhile, is worsening. Yugoslavia has
closed important border crossings into Macedonia and Albania. Refugees
were apparently told, with reference to the cease-fire announced in
Belgrade, to return to their villages. Authorities in Macedonia emptied a
collection camp at the border town of Blace. Some of the refugees were
taken to Albania and NATO camps by bus during the night. The fate of
refugees who had been stuck on the Yugoslav side of the border awaiting
entry into Macedonia, is unknown.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-3>
<H1>
ZDF television crew arrested in Montenegro
</H1>
A crew from ZDF television has been arrested while filming in the Yugoslav
constituent republic of Montenegro. Montenegrin Information Minister
Jarevic (sp?) has stated that the reporter and his colleagues had entered
a restricted area. The Foreign Office in Bonn has apparently contacted the
Montenegrin government about the matter. According to ZDF information, the
crew was underway near the capital city, Podgorica, when it was taken into
custody last night.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-4>
<H1>
WTO court of arbitration: EU banana rules illegal
</H1>
The EU regulations on banana imports have again been struck down by the
World Trade Organization. The WTO court of arbitration ruled that even the
relaxed version of EU import limitations on bananas contravened the
principles of global free trade, putting US distribution firms and Latin
American producers at a disadvantage, while favouring banana imports from
Africa, the Pacific, and the Caribbean.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-5>
<H1>
Hesse: CDU/FDP coalition makes Koch Premier
</H1>
Two months after their election victory, the CDU and FDP have taken over
the government in Hesse. In a constituent session, the Landtag in
Wiesbaden elected Koch (CDU) as State Premier. The 40-year-old received 56
of 109 registered votes, exactly the number of CDU and FDP
representatives. The cabinet consists of 7 ministers from the CDU and 2
from the FDP. Koch said his government's most important tasks were
creating jobs, as well as improving education and internal security.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-6>
<H1>
Zwickel against discussing wage policies in Alliance for Work
</H1>
The labour unions are in disagreement over the inclusion of wage policies
in the "Alliance for Work" (Buendnis fuer Arbeit) talks. Chairman of the
IG Metall union, Zwickel, renewed his opposition to negotiating wage
guidelines in that context. In contrast, OeTV boss Mai had suggested that
the subject not be excluded. Support for his position has come from the
DAG, as well as the Union for Mining, Chemistry, and Energy. They
indicated that wage policies needed to be considered within the broader
talks in order to develop an overall strategy for fighting unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-07-7>
<H1>
Former East German border officers convicted in Berlin
</H1>
The Regional Court in Berlin today passed sentence in the case against
four former East German border officers. The accused received probationary
sentences of between 10 and 14 months. They were found guilty as
accessories to manslaughter of five people trying to escape the country.
The judges called them 'office-chair killers' (Schreibtischtaeter). The
former officers contributed to standing orders for border security in the
1980s.

