<DOC de-news-1998-07-21-1>
<H1>
Ulrike Everts dead, after disappearing 2 years ago
</H1>
After being missing for two years, Ulrike Everts
was found dead. Four month after the sex murder of the eleven
year old Christina Nytsch, the offender confessed to have also
killed Ulrike. On account of the confession of the 30 year old
Ronny Rieken, the police were able to locate the body of the
13 year old schoolgirl in a moor and forest area around Oldenburg.
The girl had been missing since June 1996. According to the authorities
from Cloppenburg, last night Rieke confessed to have sexually abused
and strangulated Ulrike Everts. Being previously convicted for
the similar offences, the sex offender had already admitted yesterday
to have killed Christina Nytsch in March 1998.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-21-2>
<H1>
Trials for GDR-pensions
</H1>
During the proceedings of the shortage of the GDR special
pensions, the lawyers of the plaintiffs asked the Federal Constitutional
Court for an equal treatment of all mandates. Due to the federal pension
law, everything purchased in former East Germany was expropriated.
With that the principle of equality and the ownership guaranty were
violated. The Federal Government stands up for the shortages: taking
over the special and additional pensions would not have been correct
and very difficult to finance. In the trial in front of the Supreme
German Court the focus is on the claims of the top earners of the GDR,
such as professors, doctors, judges and former Stasi-collaborators.
Their pension claim had been drastically cut after the ending of the
SED-regime. According to the unification agreement, the pension of
those people from former East Germany who violated the principle of
humanity and misused their position will be cut. A decision is expected
to be passed in October.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-21-3>
<H1>
Prime suspect of the Schlecker-kidnapping arrested
</H1>
More than 10 years after the kidnapping of the two children
of the chemist entrepreneur Schlecker, the police has arrested three
suspects in connection with a bank robbery with taking of the hostages.
Two weeks ago three men made a raid on a bank director and his wife
in Ehingen. According to the police, after a search in
Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate 1.9 million DM of the bank
haul, firearms and hand grenades were secured. The trio is also under
suspicion of taking part in a further bank robbery about 15 years ago.
Schleckers children had been kidnapped shortly before Christmas in 1987
and then released for a ransom of almost 10 million DM.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-21-4>
<H1>
Stoiber encourages the demand for the Autobahn-vignette
</H1>
The bavarian prime minister Stoiber has reinforced the
demand for the introduction of an Autobahn-vignette. Stoiber said
after a cabinet meeting that he considers his suggestion to be lot
more justified than the one given by the federal minister of transport
Wissmann, who proposed a toll for trucks. Until the next negotiations of
the coalition, the CSU is going to prepare a vignette for everyone from
home and abroad who wants to use the Autobahn. The vignette for one
year will cost 100 DM for passenger car, between 450 and 900 DM for trucks
and busses. The whole amount of the income will be used towards road
constructions. Since in almost every neighbouring country there is a toll
for the usage of the Autobahns, it only fair that Germany should have the
same. Stoiber got support regarding this issue from the CDU/CSU party leader
Schaeuble and from the CSU group leader Glos. According to Schaeuble,
in the future all drivers will have to pay their fair share to cover the
costs for the roads in Germany, known as 'the transit-country'.
Criticism came from all other parties. SPD candidate for the chancellorship
Schroeder reassured that a parliament led by him will not introduce further
charges for the German drivers. The head of the bavarian Green party said
that she does not think much of a kilometre or a consumption independent
charge; her party wants to decrease petrol consumption through an ecology
tax.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-21-5>
<H1>
Severe storms in Bavaria and Lower Saxony
</H1>
In the evening, short, but severe storms have caused
high material damage in parts of Bavaria and the Lower Saxony.
Particularly affected by the storm were areas of Swabia, Upper Bavaria,
Lower Franconia and the Lower Saxon district Lychow-Dannenberg. The
thunderstorms caused the uprooting of many trees and many branches of
the trees were pulled down. The police, the fire brigade and the
technical public social aid all went out on call. On the Autobahn
Frankfurt-Wuerzburg a bridge was flooded which caused a major traffic
jam.

