<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-1>
<H1>
Speech on principles by the Federal President
</H1>
Federal President Herzog called upon Germans to commit to profound reforms
on the path to the 21st century, and called on them as well to make the sacrifices such changes would require. Everyone must bid adieu to their own favorite
possessions, Herzog said in this address, called the "Berliner speech" before
200 select guests in the new Hotel Adion. The results of these efforts will be
a society in transition, a society of tolerance and of change. Germans must
set aside their pessimism, and remind themselves of their effectiveness and
their gift for community work. Germany is at the gate of the most profound
challenges in the last 50 years, with over 4 million out of work, the imbalance
in ages forming an inverted pyuramid of many workers near retirement relying
on few of prime working age, as well as the effects of globalization pushing
the nation. Herzog accused the elites in politics and the economy of failure
in enacting urgently needed reform. He warned all against avoiding the necessary reforms in the areas of tax, pension, health or education out of electoral
tactical considerations, or risk failure.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-2>
<H1>
Federal Office for Labor requires a significant increase in Federal copayment
</H1>
The Federal Office for Labor will require a noticably higher Federal copayment
because of the continuing high number of unemployed as a result of the Bonn
savings reductions. The president of the office, Jagoda, said today in an
interview with the "Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung" that if the predictions of the
Economic Institute of an average unemployment of 4.3 million, there would be
a loss of income and corresponding increase in payments. This shortage would
not be recouped by the politics of the work market. Jagoda called on the
Federal government to revise the saving packages of December. These came from
a time when the growth of the labor market was much more positively forecast.
For this reason new thinking must occur, and other solutions must be found.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-3>
<H1>
Schaeuble confirms goals of tax reform
</H1>
The head of the Union faction in the Bundestag, Schaeuble, has confirmed that
the goal of the coalition is that citizens should be relieved of up to 30 billion DM of tax burden through the planned tax reform. In a newspaper interview,
Schaeuble emphasized that for the Union and the FDP it had always been clear
that there was no sense in tax reform without a net tax decrease. He has the
hope that sense, rather than the blockade strategy of the SPD leader
Lafontaine,
would prevail in the SPD as well. Schaeuble did not rule out an increase in the
use tax for reduction of social outlays. He emphasized that only after a palpable decrease in the net tax liabilities from the tax reform process, and a
thorough structural reform of pensions could shifting the tax structure, as
well as indirect taxes, be addressed.
In the opinion of the SPD chief LaFontaine the Bonn Coalition is already planning a significant increase in mineral oil and VAT. In an editorial for the
"Konstazer Suedkurier" he wrote that the Union and the FDP wanted to hide this
great tax hike from the voters before the Bundestag elections in 1998. This is
the reason that the coalition has promised the tax reforms only in 1999.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-4>
<H1>
Seite enumerates conditions on his agreement to tax reform
</H1>
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern Premier Seite, CDU, has conditioned his agreement to the tax reform on a continuation of the existing support of the east.
He told the magazine "FOCUS" that the new states would lose significant support
from the Federal government in the reform. For this reason there could be no
agreement by the eastern states to tax reform without compensation.
<P>
Several SPD premiers have confidently shown that there can still be agreement
this year with the coalition on tax reform. SPD politicians Schroeder, Beck and
Voscherau told the paper "Bild am Sonntag" were now concentrating on the communique from the caucus of the Bundestag and the Bundesrat. Party leader Lafontaine affirmed that his party wants to reduce the tax burdens of both workers
and families no later than January 1st, 1998. He said it would be a mistake,
in economic-political terms, to delay the Federal tax reform until 1999.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-5>
<H1>
Conference of state boards of Buendnis 90/The Greens
</H1>
The state boards of Buendnis 90/The Greens are meeting today in
Magdeburg. The meeting will last two days and focus primarily on tax
issues. The speaker for the federal board of The Greens, Ms. Roestl,
criticized the governmental tax plans. In an interview with the radio
station "Deutschlandradio" this morning, she said that it was
irresponsible to speak of tax breaks in this time of high governmental
debt. She added that additional cuts in social aid were not acceptable,
as they would endanger European integration. Ms. Roestl also opposed
taxation of salaries paid for work on Sundays, holidays, and during the
night shift.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-6>
<H1>
Biedenkopf considers Kohl's candidature a special risk
</H1>
Saxony's prime minister, Mr. Biedenkopf, considers the repeat candidature
of Chancellor Kohl to be especially risky for the CDU, reports the
newspaper "Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung." The paper quotes a letter
from Mr. Biedenkopf to CDU general secretary, Mr. Hinze. In it,
Biedenkopf explains that the Saxon head of government did not buy into
the popular portrayal that there was no alternative candidate to Kohl.
Biedenkopf added that the timing of the election, which will be held in a
year and half, was very unfortunate for CDU/CSU and for the coalition. He
did not think that the goal of cutting unemployment rates in half by then
was realistic. In addition, the reform of the social security
system, as well as the development of economy and infrastructure in the
Eastern states were progressing only slowly, said Biedenkopf.
<P>
Chancellor Kohl has refuted Biedenkopf's criticism of his repeat
candidature for the office of chancellor. Kohl said at the state party
conference in Trier that in this question he did not need anybody's
advice, neither that of regular citizens, nor that of professors. He
added that the CDU/CSU could not enter into the federal elections without
having agreed on their chancellor candidate.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-7>
<H1>
Demonstrations for a peaceful solution to Kurd conflict in Turkey
</H1>
In Duesseldorf today, about 40,000 people demonstrated for a peaceful
solution to the Kurd conflict in Turkey. Exiled Kurdish politicians and
representatives of Buendnis 90/The Greens called the federal government
to put a halt on weapons deliveries to Turkey. At the same time, the
demonstrators demanded that the prohibition of the Kurdish workers'
party, PKK, be revoked. Demonstrators had traveled to the event from all
parts of Germany, as well as from Switzerland, Belgium, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, and France. Several carried PKK flags, which were rolled up
at the urging of the police.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-8>
<H1>
Merkel calls for shutdown of Chernobyl nuclear reactor
</H1>
Minister for the Environment Ms. Merkel has again called for a shutdown
of the nuclear reactor in Chernobyl by the year 2000. On the eleventh
anniversary of the catastrophic meltdown at Chernobyl, she said that
negotiations with the Ukraine regarding the shutdown of the reactor were
turning out to be difficult. Ms. Merkel was optimistic, however, that
progress will be made at the world economic summit this June in Denver.
Official commemorative events were held in the Ukraine, Belorussia,
and Russia. The Ukrainian government expects a significant increase in
disease and death caused directly by the accident at Chernobyl.
According to a new study, during the past year almost 2,300 people died
as a result of exposure to radiation.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-9>
<H1>
EU establishes action plan against international trafficking in women
</H1>
The European Union has passed an international action plan to put a cap
on international trafficking in women. The ministers of welfare from
fifteen countries passed a catalog of measures presented by the
president of the board in The Hague. Criminal investigators estimate
that each year about half a million women, primarily from Eastern
European countries, are lured or abducted into EU countries and forced
into prostitution. The measures passed by the assembly include a
temporary residency permit for the victims of trafficking. The minister
of welfare of the Netherlands explained that until now, few women are
reporting to the police because they are afraid of deportation.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-26-10>
<H1>
Germany loses first game of ice hockey world cup
</H1>
At the ice hockey world championships in Finland, the German team lost
to the Czech Republic in its first game by the score of 2-1.

