<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-1>
<H1>
Edmund Stoiber confirmed as CDU chairman
</H1>
Edmund Stoiber will remain chairman of the CSU, as anticipated. Around 1,000
delegates confirmed Stoiber as party head at the Nuremberg Party Congress.
However, the votes in his favor were considerably lower than at his first
election in January.  Exactly 90 percent of the delegates voted for Stoiber,
which is only a mediocre outcome by CSU standards.  Mr. Stoiber was satisfied
nonetheless.

<P>
The second overreaching issue of the day was: Will Alfred Sauter, removed from
his position as minister of justice by Stoiber, be able to again be part of
the party's executive committee.  He was not successful.  The delegates have
apparently not forgiven him for opposing his dismissal and for openly
criticizing the party head in the LWS affair.

<P>
The second hot topic on the agenda was the federal government, or rather the
CSU's opposition to the policies of the latter.  In his speech, Mr. Stoiber
accused the red-green government of having no answer to important questions
affecting the future. "It just ain't going to work with them, ladies and
gentlemen. They won't and they can't. They have a completely different
attitude. With a bookkeeper like Eichel, you just aren't going to set the
world on fire. He even considers it a compliment when people call him a paper
clip."  According to Stoiber one needs only to look at Bavaria.  This is the
state with the nation's lowest unemployment, highest growth rate, and the
least number of people on public assistance.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-2>
<H1>
Leipzig remembers Fall, 1989
</H1>
Today in Leipzig, residents remembered the Monday demonstration which took
place 10 years ago.  On October 9, 1989, 70,000 people protested for more
rights and freedom and paved the way for a major turning point in the GDR.
There were many meetings in the Gewandhaus ['cloth-hall'] and numerous events
downtown to commemorate the event ten years ago.  The commitment of many
people, not only in Leipzig, brought about fundamental changes, Chancellor
Schroeder said today.  "The final blow to the wall did not come from
Washington, not from Bonn, and not from Moscow.  It was expressly brought
about by the people in the former GDR.  This remains their historical
legacy," he stressed.  In the afternoon, Chancellor Schroeder opened the
contemporary history forum at the central trade fair complex.  The new museum
will show various developments in both parts of Germany using some 2,500
exhibits.  In the ongoing integration process, the museum should help people
experience the different biographies in the two former parts of Germany,
Chancellor Schroeder said.  "Those who want to make progress in German unity
should never lose sight of the period of separation.  This contemporary
history forum will hopefully make a contribution to this end," he added.  The
festivities will come to an end in the Nikolai Church where the Monday
demonstration began 10 years ago after prayers for peace.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-3>
<H1>
Schroeder criticizes CDU's tax proposals
</H1>
At a party congress of the Schleswig-Holstein SPD, Federal Chancellor
Schroeder defended the government's planned savings measures in the face of
protests from farmers.  Schroeder harshly criticized the CSU and its most
recent tax model.  Because of the huge state debt, the Union parties have no
right to be part of the discussion on tax reform, he added.  "This mountain
of debts and its ramifications are a true representation of the largest
upward redistribution of money that we have ever had.  And it was caused by
16 years of Helmut Kohl and those who are now going on about the tax reform,
like Stoiber and Schaeuble.  These people are really wolves in sheep's
clothing, dear colleagues.  Whoever lets 1.5 billion slip through his fingers
via uncontrolled state banks in Bavaria has lost the right to tell others
what to do when it comes to economic and finance policies," he argued.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-4>
<H1>
IG-Metall wants shorter working time
</H1>
IG Metall representatives met yesterday at the union congress to discuss
future tariff policies.  The delegates made it clear that they continue to be
very much against an amalgamation of wage guidelines in talks on a Labor
Alliance.  At the center of the talks are additional reductions of work time.
IG-Metall would like to have the weekly work time reduced using various
models, at least medium-term.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-5>
<H1>
Mueller also now in favor of private pension coverage
</H1>
While the discussion of pension reform has been on the back burner in the
past few weeks, those whose make the political decisions are well aware that
the old system is no longer feasible due to demographic changes.  Therefore,
it has been suggested recently that citizens should build up their own,
private retirement funds.  Minister of Labor Riester started the dialogue
about the appropriate requirement.  Minister of the Economy Mueller revisited
this issue and expressed his strong support for this type of individual, but
mandatory coverage.  Without this private coverage, people are in danger of
only getting the subsistence level in their advanced years, Mr. Mueller told
the news magazine. Mr. Mueller responded to the opposition's proposal that
tax incentives be used to start up the system by saying that that will
probably not be enough.  The key point for compulsory savings is whether
people will have enough income to make the contribution.  The burden was
relieved by the red-green tax reform which provided sufficient funds to
establish additional pension coverage, Mr. Mueller added.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-6>
<H1>
Helmut Hofer receives fine
</H1>
German business man Helmut Hofer has been fined by an Iranian court and will
most likely be released from custody in the next week.  Hofer was in custody
for two years because the Iranian judiciary system had accused him of having
illicit sexual contact with a Muslim woman.  In the court of the first
instance, he was sentenced to death.  His lawyer reported that his penalty is
to pay a fine of approximately 60,000 marks.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-09-7>
<H1>
Germany qualifies for European soccer championship
</H1>
With a score of 0:0 against Turkey, the German Soccer Association qualified
for the European soccer championship this evening at the Munich Olympics
Stadium.

