<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-1>
<H1>
Water levels sink in flood-endangered areas along the River Oder
</H1>
Crisis Committees in Brandenburg have reported that water levels
are sinking for the first time since the waters started rising three weeks
ago. According to today's report from the Ministry of Internal Affairs in
Potsdam, levels have sunk 17 centimetres within a day in Ratzdorf where the
rivers Oder and Neisse converge. The water level at Frankfurt an der Oder
was also less than six metres. Mr. Platzeck, the Minister for the
Environment says the situation is stable, however there was still a
possibility that dikes might not hold. He was of the opinion that the
"flood of the century", as it is called, will be over within a week or so.
However, it was still too early to say that the danger was over. Several
old unexploded bombs from the Second World War were found today at the
construction site for the secondary dike at Reitwein (sp?) and had to be
defused by experts. The construction of the dike is expected to be
completed by Thursday. The Ministry of Health in Potsdam warned against
(among other things) contact with water from the River Oder. Increased E.
coli bacterial levels have been established in several places, although
there is apparently no acute danger of an epidemic. Volker Ruehe, the
Minister of Defence, has announced that Bundeswehr soldiers will continue
to assist in clearing up operations in the flood-endangered areas. Bernhard
Jagoda, the President of the Federal Labour Office, has indicated that
money for around 10.000 unemployed is available for financing aid workers
to work in the disaster area. Around 1.800 unemployed have already assisted
in the area. Ms. Merkel, the Federal Minister for the Environment,
announced today that a consequence of the flood was that Germany, Poland
and the Czech Republic intend to collaborate more closely on flood defence
measures. A benefit gala held by the ARD state television station on Sunday
evening in Berlin has already brought in over DM4.3 million in donations
for the flood victims.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-2>
<H1>
Resolution: local trade tax to be abolished
</H1>
The Mediation Committee of the Bundestag and Bundesrat [upper and
lower houses of parliament] has reached a formal understanding regarding
the abolishment of the local trade tax. At the same time, the committee,
where the Social Democrats (SPD) and the Greens held a majority, rejected
the governing coalition's proposals regarding a tax reform. The committee
also rejected the SPD's tabled bill regarding decreasing secondary labour
costs. Politicians from the Christian Social Union and the Free Democratic
Party also announced a second round of mediation regarding the tax reform
issue. Oskar Lafontaine, the leader of the SPD, is of the opinion that such
a step would only be of use if the government were prepared to make
compromises, which, as yet, had not been the case, he said.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-3>
<H1>
Defence lawyers demand acquittal for Krenz in politburo trial
</H1>
Defence lawyers in the politburo trial in Berlin in connection with
fatal shootings at the Berlin wall have demanded the acquittal of Egon
Krenz, the former head of state in East Germany and general secretary of
the SED (former ruling party). They claimed that the accused could not be
sentenced for acts which were legal at the time in East Germany. Krenz's
defence lawyers have accused the court and the public prosecutor of
executing political justice. An order to shoot, they, said, had never been
issued. Mr. Schabowski, the former district head of the SED and Mr.
Klaiber, a former East-German economic expert, are also on trial.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-4>
<H1>
SPD to announce chancellor candidate in spring
</H1>
Oskar Lafontaine, head of the SPD and Gerhard Schroeder, state
premier of Lower Saxony, have apparently reached an agreement on strategy
for the federal elections in 1998. After having gone on a walk together in
the Saarland, they announced that their agreement also covered certain
personal issues. They stressed that they had also reached agreement on
which of them would stand as the SPD's candidate for chancellor in spring
next year.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-5>
<H1>
Danish police increase border controls
</H1>
The Danish police plan to increase border controls at the
border with Germany. According to a spokesman, the Danes hope to be able to
counteract the increasing number of people illegally crossing the border
from Germany, particularly asylum seekers and refugees. Apparently 56
asylum seekers who had illegally crossed the border have been taken into
custody this weekend alone. The reason for the increasing numbers, assume
the Danish authorities, is that Germany have started with the deportation
of Bosnian refugees.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-6>
<H1>
Chilean judiciary has prescience in investigation of German sect
</H1>
The German government is expecting the Chilean judiciary to deal with
prosecution of the controversial "Colonia Dignidad" sect under the rule of
law. A spokesman for the Ministry of Justice in Bonn has said that Chile
had prescience in the investigation of alleged child molesters within the
ranks of the members of the sect. The German government would, however, be
kept informed of all developments, he stressed. Both countries are
investigating the case of Paul Schaefer in connection with alleged child
abuse. Mr. Schaefer is apparently, according to former members of the sect,
still living on the extensive grounds belonging to the "Colonia Dignidad"
sect.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-7>
<H1>
Orthography reform: Mainz administrative court rejects urgent appeal
</H1>
The administrative court in Mainz has rejected an urgent appeal by
the schools of the Rhineland-Palatinate against introducing the orthography
reform. The judge said today that the urgent appeal was not justified and
that the introduction of the reform via a state administrative ruling was
legally permissible. He continued that there was no necessity for a special
federal ruling. A father had lodged a complaint against the state ruling
claiming that the reform required a legal foundation. The judge in Mainz
ruled, however, that the introduction of the new orthography was not a
ruling of basic importance for education or educational politics. In the
interim Mr. Boerk (sp?), the Minister of Education for Schleswig-Holstein,
has defended the controversial reform. He said that schools in
Schleswig-Holstein already introduced the new orthography last year.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-8>
<H1>
Highest tax-office official in Baden Wuerttemberg denies accusations
</H1>
Mr. Merkle, the highest tax official in Baden Wuerttemberg has
denied accusations of having broken official and tax secrecy laws. Mr.
Merkle did admit to a special sitting of the state Ways and Means Committee
that certain comments of his at a regular meeting had been "clumsy and
careless" but his comments could not be considered to an offence under the
Official Secrets Act. The public prosecutor's office is conducting an
investigation on Mr. Merkle in connection with details he revealed at a
meeting on the case against the concert agency Hoffman in Mannheim. Mr.
Mayer-Vorfelder, the Minister of Finance (CDU), defended Mr. Merkle today
and described the opposition's statements as being "defamatory accusations"
and "incorrect assumptions". The SPD and the Greens have accused Mr.
Mayer-Vorfelder of a cover up.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-9>
<H1>
Carl Zeiss in Jena guarantees jobs until October 1998
</H1>
The management of Carl Zeiss in Jena, the optics manufacturer, and
the Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics (IG Metall) have
negotiated a new wage agreement. Zeiss have guaranteed 1 500 jobs until
October next year. In return, employees have agreed to forfeit their
Christmas bonus as well as three quarters of the holiday bonus. According
to the Union, salaries and wages will be increased in October this year
from the present level of 94 percent to a 100 percent of the Thuringia
metal industry wage agreement.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-10>
<H1>
Restrictions for women in military unconstitutional?
</H1>
Restrictions for women in the German military are to be checked by the
Federal Constitutional Court. [The constitution bars women from military
service involving weapons. Women also need not do compulsory military or
substitute service.] According to the Bundeswehr-Association a military
court has suspended a proceeding because it found the restrictions in
violation of several constitutional articles. The plaintiff in the
proceedings is a female officer (lance sergeant/corporal) who has applied
for a position in the tank reconnaissance. She argues that the restriction
is equal to a prohibition of profession.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-11>
<H1>
Bundeswehr fighter jet touches power line
</H1>
A Bundeswehr Tornado fighter jet has touched and ripped a high-voltage
power line during a training flight near Pforzheim. According to the
Defence Ministry the Tornado was executing a low altitude flight and was
allowed a minimum altitude of 150 m. The jet was damaged on the left side
but was able to land safely on US air base Ramstein. The two pilots were
unharmed.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-04-12>
<H1>
Number of seals at North Seas coast continues to increase
</H1>
The number of seals at Lower Saxony's North Sea coast has increased
further. The hunter's association of Wesermuende-Bremerhaven reported that
so far more than 4300 seals have been counted. This year alone, 900 seals
have been born. If, however, the number of fish decreased further, one had
to expect that weak animals become ill, said Mr. Schumann (sp?), head of
the seal rearing and research station in Nordernorddeich.

