<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-1>
<H1>
Green Party Conference
</H1>
A compromise has been reached in the battle over how long Green deputies
should be able to keep their positions with out being subject to recall.
 The newest motion at the party conference of the Greens/Alliance 90 is
that future ministers should be able to hold their seats for at least
two years. At that point, the Greens would examine whether the
experiment had been a success.

<P>
In addition, the delegates discussed the coalition contract.  Mr.
Trittin, the spokesman for the Greens' executive committee who is soon
to become the Minister of the Environment, tried to drum up enthusiasm
for cooperation with the SPD.  He admitted that the coalition agreement
fell short in several places, and that the bitterest pill to swallow had
been the new government's refugee policy.  However, Trittin said that
the Greens had nevertheless had achieved several successes in the
negotiations.  The most important of these was the planned reform of
citizenship rights, which Trittin said will be "a break with the logic
of Blood and Land."

<P>
Several delegates have criticised the published version of the coalition
contract in the ongoing debate. Nonetheless, an approval of the document
is considered certain.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-2>
<H1>
DGB Chief Schulte defends the coalition agreement
</H1>
Dieter Schulte, president of the German Federation of Unions (DGB),
today defended the red-green coalition agreement against critics.
Schulte told the delegates at a conference of the international union of
media workers in Wuerzburg that the agreement is a step in the right
direction, and that the new government offers a chance for real reforms.
He said the moaning and wailing of employers was partly play-acting. He
emphasized that the long sought-after Alliance for Jobs was an
initiative of the unions.  The thing to do now, he said, was to make
sure that a fair give and take came out of it.  As examples of measures
that might come out of such an alliance, Schulte mentioned part-time
employment for older workers; a redistribution of work between the
employed and the unemployed, and between the young and the old. He also
spoke of better regulation of part-time employment. Detlef Hensche,
president of the media workers union, had opened the conference with a
restrained critique of several members of the incoming government. He
also warned that the proven system of old-age pensions was being put
into question.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-3>
<H1>
A nuclear power phase-out
</H1>
The heads German energy concerns have laid out a schedule for phasing
out the use of nuclear power.  The future spokesman of the Harig nuclear
energy group told "Der Spiegel" that industry- wide teams should be able
to produce a cost breakdown for the various red-green scenarios which
call for a shutdown of the nuclear power industry before Christmas.
With those in hand, the industry would enter into talks with the
government.  Harig said that the sooner people want to out of nuclear
power, the more it will cost. If, on the other hand, the government is
willing to go more slowly, it will cost less.

<P>
The energy companies want to be compensated for billions of dollars in
lost profits as well as for the increased costs of of new waste disposal
methods.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-4>
<H1>
New head of Opel
</H1>
Opel has confirmed that Mr. Gaeb, the head of Board of Directors, is
stepping down.  Who will replce him is unclear.  According to "Der
Spiegel," Robert Hendry, the present head of SAAB, will be the new head
of Opel.  (Both SAAB and Opel are subsidiaries of General Motors.)  Such
a move would be seen as a reaction on the part of GM to the criticism
lodged against the original candidate for the job, Mr. Hanenberger.  He
was Opel's former head of research and development and was the object of
controversy while there.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-5>
<H1>
Bavarian Red Cross entangled in corruption scandal
</H1>
The Bavarian Red Cross has apparently gotten entangled in a large-scale
corruption scandal.  The Munich District Attorney's Office revealed
today that it had searched the premises of numerous institutions run by
the aid agency. In the course of the investigation, numerous files and
records were allegedly seized. In addition, according to the press
office, several bank accounts of the organization have been frozen.

<P>
Meanwhile, Bavarian Red Cross president Mr. Schmidt has promised a
complete explanation of events.  He denied a report that the
investigation had focused on the embezzlement of donated funds.
According to his statement, the matter revolved solely around
artificially inflated prices for blood supplies. The Bavarian Red Cross
has figured repeatedly in the headlines over the past few years due to
its policy of purchasing blood supplies. It has also been critisized for
costly foreign trips abroad taken by its directors.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-24-6>
<H1>
End of daylight savings time
</H1>
Daylight savings time ends tonight.  At three o'clock in the morning,
clocks will be set back to two o'clock.  The night will therefore be an
hour longer than usual.  Next year, daylight savings time will extend
from the 28th of March through the 31st of October.

