<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-1>
<H1>
Dead soldiers transported to Germany
</H1>
The bodies of the two German soldiers killed in
Bosnia on Friday have been brought to Germany.   According to
reports of the Federal Ministry of Defense, a memorial service will
presumably be held in the middle of next week in Donaueschingen,
their home town.   A third soldier who was seriously injured in the
accident is under treatment at the army hospital in Ulm.   The three
men were hit near Sarajevo by shots fired accidentally from a
cannon aboard a reconnaissance tank.
In the meantime, German military experts are trying to find out
what caused the accident.   A spokesperson stated that the cannon,
from which several shots were fired for no apparent reason on
Friday, was in the process of being completely checked out at the
German headquarters.   The results of this probe are expected to be
available at the beginning of next week.   Speculations that
mistakes were made in operating the cannon or that disregard for
safety regulations caused this tragic accident were rejected by the
spokesperson.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-2>
<H1>
FDP-party congress in Wiesbaden leads to Coalition disagreement
</H1>
Speaking at the party congress of the Liberals, FDP-
Secretary General Westerwelle referred to the latest remarks made
to the SPIEGEL by Federal Minister for Finance Waigel as
irresponsible.   During an interview with the news magazine, Mr.
Waigel had not rejected an increase in taxes to cover the budget.
The Secretary General of the FDP charged that Waigel complains
about the budget on the one hand while spending money for major
military projects on the other.   He stated that it was not right
that the FDP should be responsible for savings while its Coalition
partner was responsible for benefits.   Mr.  Westerwelle emphasized
that the FDP would stand firm in its disagreement with the
Christian Democratic Union.   In the evening, the new statement of
principles was accepted.   After hours of discussion of motions for
changes, the delegates approved the principles with only five
opposed and three abstentions.   These principles include the
statement that the creation of new federal debts is to be forbidden
by the Constitution.   In the liberal middle-class society which is
its goal, the role played by the state in economic matters is to be
limited and social benefits would be limited to those who really
need them.   Furthermore, the Liberals demand in their program that
a constitutional regulation set a limit on the largest tax burden
that is permissible.   In the future, a two-thirds majority in each
house of Parliament should be required for the introduction of a
new tax.
Federal Minister for Finance Waigel rejected the reproaches.
During a meeting with his counterparts from Switzerland and
Austria, he called the rejection of tax increases irresponsible.
During the summer at the latest, it would be determined, he said,
whether the projected privatizations and additional revenues from
real estate would suffice to balance the 1997 budget.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-3>
<H1>
CDU-social committees disagree about wages and social policies
</H1>
At the federal congress of the CDU social committees on
Saturday, there was strong disagreement about wage and social
benefit policies.   Many delegates were critical of a position paper
written by the leadership which suggested keeping wage increases
below the inflation rate in order to encourage the creation of jobs
and investments.   Another controversial plan was to introduce low
entry level wages for those who have minimal qualifications and
have been unemployed for a long time.
The majority of the delegates supported the demand not to tax the
higher pay rates for Sunday-and-night work.   The leadership of the
CDU, on the other hand, was only pleading for transitional
regulations concerning the projected taxation.   Additionally, the
delegates expressed their opposition to wage agreements below the
rate of inflation and appealed to employers to contribute to an
increase in the number of jobs.   Contrary to the original
planning
for the session, the debate about the thirty theses of the
leadership will be continued on Sunday because of the many
amendments that have been proposed.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-4>
<H1>
SPD willing to lower maximum tax rate
</H1>
In principle, the SPD has agreed to work with the
government in lowering the maximum tax rate.   In an interview
with the newspaper BILD AM SONNTAG, SPD leader Mr.  Lafontaine
said that there was room for negotiations for a decrease in the
maximum rate, as long as loop holes in the tax law were being
fixed at the same time.   Describing the tax proposal put out by
his party, Mr.  Lafontaine explained that the SPD was proposing
net tax decreases of about 2,000 to 2,500 Mark per year for an
average family with two children.   Also included is a step-wise
decrease in the minimum tax rate to 15 per cent, combined with an
increased tax exempt amount of 14,000 Marks.   Several newspapers
report that the proposal also includes an increase in child
benefits to a total of 250 Marks per child and a decrease in social
insurance  premiums by two percentage points.   The SPD leadership plans
to vote on its tax proposal on Monday.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-5>
<H1>
DBB leader calls for dissolution of eight Laender
</H1>
The chair of the German association of civil servants, Mr.
Geyer, has called for the dissolution of eight of the sixteen
Laender, to help reduce costs.   Nearly ten billion Marks a
year could be saved by this measure, Mr.  Geyer said in a
newspaper interview.   He pointed out that the tiny Land of
Saarland was an oddity which could not be supported in a "Europe
of Regions."  Mr.  Geyer proposes that the Saarland be combined
into one Land together with Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-
Palatinate.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-6>
<H1>
Demonstrations against education policies in Schleswig-Holstein
</H1>
Several thousand people have demonstrated against
education policies in Schleswig Holstein in the Hanse city today.
The event had been organized by the district parent advisory
committee in Luebeck.   In their opinion, there are more and more
students attending the schools, while at the same time there are
fewer and fewer classes being held.   The minister of education, Ms
Boerk (sp?), rejected the criticism.   The SPD politician noted
that the Land of Schleswig-Holstein had raised its education
budget by three per cent his year.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-7>
<H1>
Protestant church re-elects synod president
</H1>
The president of the synod of the Protestant
church in Germany, Mr.  Schmude, has been re-elected into office
by a large majority.   At the conference of the synod in
Friedrichsroda, Thuringia, Mr.  Schmude received 113 of 117 votes
cast.   The former SPD politician had no opponents.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-8>
<H1>
Bayer plans to lay off 3,000 workers
</H1>
The chemical and pharmaceutical company Bayer AG plans
to lay off 1,000 employees annually until the year 2000.   As a
speaker for the company explained, Bayer hopes to lower its costs
by more than one billion Marks by this measure.   In return, Bayer plans
not to  let off any workers for operational reasons.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-9>
<H1>
Further investigations in the VW bribery affair
</H1>
In the monetary bribes affair involving VW
employees, investigations have been expanded to include managers
of the Swedish-Swiss investment and construction company ABB.
The attorney general in Braunschweig announced on Thursday that 14
locations had been searched, in Mannheim and Stuttgart, as well as
in other places.   The news magazine DER SPIEGEL reports that the
apartment of the director of ABB Germany, Mr.  Pohr (sp?), as well
as that of the director of the division ABB power plant technologies, Mr.
Baier (sp?).   ABB Germany has issued a statement that it welcomes and
supports the investigations currently underway.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-10>
<H1>
38th South West convention opens
</H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg minister of justice,
Mr.  Goll, has commenced the 38th South West convention.   650
vendors are exhibiting their products in the consumer convention,
which will run until June 1st.   In the area of housekeeping
alone, 200 companies are running exhibits.   The organizers expect
140,000 visitors, a 20 per cent increase compared to last year.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-24-11>
<H1>
Soccer: Bundesliga
</H1>
The club FC Bayer Muenchen is the new German soccer
champion, one day before the end of the season.   The team won a
home game against the club VfB Stuttgart with a final score of
4:2, while at the same time the second runner-up, Leverkusen, lost
its game in Cologne at 0:4.   The third team to descend from the
First into the Second Bundesliga, besides Freiburg and Sankt
Pauli, is Fortuna Duesseldorf.   The team lost to Werder Bremen
with a score of 0:1.

<P>
The results of the 33rd day:

<P>

