<DOC de-news-1998-09-12-1>
<H1>
Day of Action for the German Federation of Unions
</H1>
Demonstrations that had been called for by the DGB [the German Federation
of Unions] and the Citizen's Initiative on Behalf of People Without
Earnings took place in several German cities today. In Dortmund alone,
around 15,000 people from all over the state of North Rhine-Westfalia
gathered in the streets. Dieter Schulte, the head of the DGB, called at
one rally for just treatment of the unemployed and a new Partnership for
Jobs [Buendnis fuer Arbeit]. He also declared himself in favor of a new
start after the federal elections. He said that the struggle against mass
unemployment would be the measuring rod for any new federal government.

<P>
The motto of the demonstration -- Your Vote For Jobs and Social Justice --
was carved into an enormous block of ice with blowtorches and ice-picks,
and was supposed to represent the end of the ice age. Alluding to this,
Schulte warned against any further reductions in social services. He also
said the recent mild upswing in the labor markets should not be cheered
from the rooftops as if it was a turning point. There remained no
alternative for the employers than to finally give the unions their due
for all their cooperation by hiring more people. The DGB Chief also warned
that the present labor situation must not turn into a vote for racist
right-wingers.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-12-2>
<H1>
Bavarian Election Tomorrow (Sunday)
</H1>
The state balloting in Bavaria will be closely watched as a forerunner of
what might happen in the national elections that follow soon after. But as
it turns out, the two elections might not have much to do with each other.
After taking their last survey before the election, pollsters at Infratest
came to the conclusion that national politics was playing barely any role
in the outcome of the Bavarian state elections. 58% of those surveyed said
they preferred to give Bavarian politics more weight in deciding for whom
to vote. Those that will cast their vote with an eye on Bonn are clearly
in the minority. Therefore state politics will dominate the state
elections according to this telephone survey of 1000 registered voters.

<P>
According to Infratest, the CSU will get significantly more than 50% of
the vote. Small gains are forecast for the SPD. The Greens are tremulously
close to not regaining entry to the state parliament -- at the end of
August, they polled exactly 5% of the vote, and they have clearly lost
some ground since then. The FDP is given very little chance, but Infratest
cannot say for sure what independent voters might do; they might just
possibly provide the push to get them over the 5% hurdle. The Republicans
continue to hover around 2%, and in Infratest's estimation they have
barely any prospect of making it into the state parliament.

<P>
The CSU and Minister-President Stoiber get high marks in almost every
department. A clear majority of voters are content with the Bavarian state
government, but at the same time a very clear majority are discontented
with the policies of the federal government. The Bavarian SPD can draw
comfort on two fronts. In the first place, their Bavarian
Minister-Candidate, Renate Schmidt, has very high approval ratings. And in
the second place, Gerhard Schroeder is clearly preferred to Helmut Kohl in
a head-to-head match-up even in Bavaria.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-12-3>
<H1>
Demonstration Against NPD March
</H1>
Approximately 800 people demonstrated in Muenster against a march by the
[extreme right-wing] NPD. A few stones were thrown and some signal flares
set off.  The approximately 400 NPD supporters protested vociferously at
their election rally against a German Army exhibition currently showing in
Muenster that exposes crimes committed by German soldiers during World War
II.  Muenster's Supreme Court had lifted the ban against the NPD rally
just the day before.  At a counter-rally in front of City Hall, Mayor
Tuenz (SPD) said that Muenster had no interest in anti-immigrant speeches.
After that rally, the participants built a human chain from City Hall to
the place where the army exhibition was being shown.  After the NPD rally,
the police took 120 counter-demonstrators into custody.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-12-4>
<H1>
1999 Federal Budget Appears to Have a Several Billion Mark Gap
</H1>
According to a report in the news magazine "Der Spiegel," there is a
budget gap of several billion marks in the 1999 Federal Budget. Apparently
the Finance Ministry has overestimated corporate tax proceeds by almost 11
billion marks. It does not seem to have been taken into consideration that
tax-free pension contributions might have to be recalculated starting next
year.

