<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-1>
<H1>
Foreign Ministers Fischer and Cook meet regarding Kosovo
</H1>
NATO intends to stick with its two-part strategy for the Kosovo conflict
of air attacks and diplomatic efforts. Foreign Minister Fischer along with
his British counterpart Cook explained after a meeting in Bonn that the
military pressure on Yugoslavia must be maintained. Furthermore, the most
important goal for the alliance is the return of all Kosovar refugees to
their homeland. At the same time, Fischer called attention to progress
that was being made on a peaceful solution to the crisis. In Moscow,
discussions between the special envoys of Russia, the USA, and the EU
continued this evening. According to Russians, the negotiations may
continue on into the night. NATO combat aircraft attacked Yugoslavian
troops today in the vicinity of an Albanian border crossing. The OSCE also
reported Serbian artillery attacks against targets in Albania.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-2>
<H1>
Struck: Accept another 10,000 refugees
</H1>
On the border between Kosovo and Macedonia, another refugee drama played
itself out today. According to UN reports, approximately 15,000 refugees
attempted to cross into Macedonia, but were prevented by Serbs who have
closed the border. The Albanian-Kosovar leader Rugova visited the refugee
camp at Blace today. He continued to call for a quick entry of NATO troops
into Kosovo. Parliamentary party leader Stuck of the SPD who was visiting
Macedonia as well as Albania, spoke out in favor of Germany's acceptance
of another 10,000 Kosovar refugees. Germany can't stop with just 20,000
refugees, he said, even if other countries are being hesitant.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-3>
<H1>
Annan: Take measures to reduce poor countries' debt
</H1>
UN Secretary-General Annan urged the G7 industrial nations and Russia to
undertake concrete measures for the reduction of debts owed by the poorest
nations in the world. In an open letter to Chancellor Schroeder published
in New York, he said the wealthy countries must do much more than they
have done up till now to help the nearly 3 billion people of the poorest
states. Annan called specifically for cancellation of debt, an increase in
spending for developmental assistance, and the safeguarding of stronger
economic growth.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-4>
<H1>
Health Ministry presents high points of health reform
</H1>
Health Minister Fischer again defended the planned health care reform
against criticism. Introducing her bill in Bonn, the Green party
politician criticized the Physician's Association of consciously spreading
fear, uncertainty and doubt to their patients. Those who oppose the
planned reorganizations must also point to alternatives, she said. The
intention is to couple health care spending to the overall growth of wages
in the future. A global budget will determine the upper limit on insurance
payments, and the role of the family doctor will be strengthened.
Furthermore there will be list of approved drugs for which insurance will
pay. Vilmar, president of the Federal General Medical Council, speaking on
ZDF television this evening said if the proposal is implemented in its
current form, strikes could not be ruled out. Vilmar called the reform
plan unrealistic. Rising life expectancies and medical advances will lead
to a need for more treatment in the future. Therefore, a global budget
tied to income cannot guarantee the necessary care in the long term, he
said.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-5>
<H1>
Action plan to combat violence against women
</H1>
Minister for the Family Bergmann wants to combat violence against women
with a national action plan. Among other things, the intent is to create
closer cooperation between the states and more legal protections for those
affected by violence, said Ms. Bergmann from Bonn. In the future it will
be possible to place a temporary restraining order on married men who have
committed violent acts. This way, the Minister stressed, women would no
longer have to leave their own homes in order to seek refuge. A law based
on the plan will be submitted in the fall.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-6>
<H1>
Anti-Trust Office approves Arcor's takeover of O-tel-O
</H1>
The Federal Anti-Trust Office has approved the takeover of the telephone
company O-tel-O by its competitor Mannesman Arcor. The merger will not
result in a monopoly position in the market, since Deutsche Telekom
remains the industry leader. Mannesman Arcor purchased O-tel-O last month
from the power companies RWE and VEBA for approximately 2.2 billion DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-26-7>
<H1>
International War Crimes Tribunal indicts Milosevic
</H1>
The International War Crimes Tribunal at The Hague has issued an
indictment of Yugoslavian President Milosevic, according to sources within
the diplomatic corps at NATO headquarters. The indictment, which Chief
Prosecutor Arbour will announce tomorrow, accuses Milosevic of war crimes
in connection with the conflict in Kosovo.

