<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-1>
<H1>
German book publishers' association awards Peace Prize
</H1>
Germany's book publishers' association have awarded the
Turkish writer Yasar Kemal their Peace Prize in St. Paul's church in
Frankfurt. Kemal is one of the most popular contemporary writers in Turkey.
The award certificate stated that Mr. Kemal's novels and narratives are
written with an uncompromising eye for reality. Furthermore, he has been
selfless and brave in his commitment as an advocate for the poor, exploited
and prosecuted, even to the extent of being imprisoned and going into
exile. Guenther Grass held the eulogy. The laureate became internationally
known when his novel entitled "Mehmet my Falcon" was published in 1955. As
a socialist and advocate for the Kurds, the 74-year old has received
several prison sentences. The German book publishers' association award
their Peace Price annually during the Frankfurt Book Fair to a writer,
scientist or artist who has a strong commitment to peace. The price is
worth 25 000 marks.

<P>
Kemal has condemned the bloody fights between Turks and Kurds in his
country. When he accepted the award at St. Paul's, Kemal said an incredibly
dirty, cruel and senseless war has been raging for twelve years. He also
aid that the majority of Turkish and Kurdish intellectuals want an
immediate stop to the murder. The writer also called for peace and
democracy. He said: "I want those people who read my novels to detest wars
and commit themselves to peace and brotherliness."

<P>
In his eulogy, Guenther Grass acknowledged Kemal as a writer whose works
captivate readers. He said that Kemal's political agenda has its roots in
the needs, dreams and hopes of everyday people. Grass criticized German
weapons deliveries to Turkey and the undercurrent of xenophobia in Germany.
He said that he was ashamed of his country which has degenerated into
nothing but an industrial location with a government which allows deadly
commerce and refuses asylum to prosecuted Kurds.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-2>
<H1>
Stop to the spelling reform demanded
</H1>
In a joint statement, 26 citizens' initiatives have demanded that the
spelling reform be abandoned. Years of fighting and billions of marks in
expenses could be avoided by stopping the reform now, speakers of the
initiatives declared at the end of the Frankfurt Book Fair. They claim that
500 000 people have signed their petition. The opponents to the spelling
reform have had their biggest success so far on Friday when the Lueneburg
Higher Administrative Court declared Lower Saxony's early introduction of
the new rules illegal.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-3>
<H1>
DGB demands compensation for part-time workers
</H1>
According to the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB),
workers who earn less money because their full-time jobs are converted to
part time should be compensated, at least partially, by the Labor Office.
Ursula Engelen-Kaefer, the vice president of the DGB, said this should make
it more attractive to temporarily give up a full-time position, for example
to take care of small children or relatives. However, she continued, as is
the case with part-time retirement, the prerequisite is that the position
is handed on to an unemployed person. Ms. Engelen-Kaefer also renewed her
criticism of the 610 mark jobs not covered by social insurance. According
to her, these jobs are a convenient loop-hole for employers which prevents
the creation of attractive part-time positions.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-4>
<H1>
DAG demands agreement on 610 mark jobs
</H1>
The National Union of Employees (DAG) has demanded that the Social
Democrats and Union parties reach agreement on a method to limit jobs not
covered by social insurance before the end of this election period. Mr.
Freitag, a member of the DAG executive board, said in Hamburg that
legislative steps should not fail because of the opposition of the Free
Democratic Party (FDP). Employers should not be encouraged to split up
full-time positions in order to have a competitive edge by saving
contributions to social insurance. Mr. Freitag proposed that all jobs
paying more than 100 marks per month should be liable for social insurance
contributions.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-5>
<H1>
Countrywide mail service guaranteed, even after post monopoly ends
</H1>
According to Wolfgang Boetsch, the Federal Minister of Post, all
areas of Germany will have a mail service, even after the Federal Post
Office's monopoly for letters has come to an end. The Minister told the
radio station "Sueddeutscher Rundfunk" that the nearest mail box and post
office might, however, not be within walking distance. However, to be
competitive in an open market, companies will have to cover all of Germany.
This has become obvious in the package service industry which has had an
open market for 20 years. The government plans to extend the German Federal
Post Office exclusive rights to deliver letters under 100 grams for a five
year period only, starting in 1998. The Upper House of Parliament
(Bundesrat) has called upon the Mediation Committee to rule on the issue in
reference to the Postal Delivery Laws which legislates, among other things,
for an extension of the monopoly.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-6>
<H1>
HBV accuses retail industry of breaking the law
</H1>
The Union for Trade, Bank and Insurance Employees (HBV) has
accused the retail industry of breaking the law in regards to the new
business hour legislation. They say that both local and city councils have
been granting increasing exceptions for opening on Sundays and that this is
an incursion on the remains of a free weekend for employees. Moreover, they
say that stores who are not permitted to open on Sundays are not
competitive any more. In addition, many stores break the rule which
requires that businesses which open on Sundays close at 2 pm instead of 4
pm on Saturdays. According to the HBV, the Ministers of Employment are
observing the situation without taking any action. The law is being
undermined, especially in Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia and
Rhineland-Palatinate. The union announced that it will use all legal means
to counteract this development.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-7>
<H1>
Chief Federal Prosecutor criticizes EUROPOL
</H1>
Kai Nehm, the head Federal Prosecutor, has criticized the lack of
control on EUROPOL, the future European police authority. Mr. Nehm told the
radio station "Deutschlandfunk" that measures for controlling the police by
the instruments of justice is necessary to secure fundamental rights.
Otherwise, he said, one pillar of the constitutional state is missing in
the criminal code. It is unfortunate that the police rather than the
justice system is the driving force in the unification of European criminal
investigation and prosecution. Mr. Nehm called upon politicians to take
another look at the agreed regulations.
<P>
The EUROPOL convention, which will
shortly become law in Germany, gives the new Police authority far-reaching
powers to collect and distribute data on individuals and businesses. He
continued that before this can be ratified, the agreement needs the consent
of the Bundesrat (Upper House of the Parliament) where the SPD have a
majority. Social Democrats as well as Liberal Democrats are particularly
skeptical about a provision of the agreement which would give EUROPOL
employees immunity from criminal prosecution.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-8>
<H1>
Large-scale manhunt for child molester unsuccessful so far
</H1>
In spite of a nation-wide manhunt, there is no trace of the
man who kidnapped and sexually abused a ten year old girl from
Grossalbstadt in Lower Frankonia. According to the child's description, the
man is 50 to 60 years old with many tattoos, a bald forehead and a beard.
He drove a small red car. A special command force of twenty is
investigating all the leads.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-9>
<H1>
Opening of ZMK in Karlsruhe
</H1>
The electropop group "Kraftwerk" gave their first concert in
Germany for years at the opening of the Center for Art and Media Technology
(ZMK). For two hours last night, the Duesseldorf musicians presented old
hits such as "Autobahn" and "Roboter" as well as several new pieces. The
concert, which was held in a factory converted into a museum, attracted 4
500 spectators and was sold out. It was considered to be among the
highlights of the opening of the center.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-19-10>
<H1>
Multiple car crash on A92
</H1>
According to police sources, one person was killed and five injured
in a multiple car crash on the A92 last night. After a rear-end collision,
about 20 vehicles crashed into each other. Five cars burst into flames and
burned out.

