<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-1>
<H1>
Sequels to EU parliamentary elections
</H1>
Yesterday's European elections inflicted heavy losses on Bonn's
governing parties, while the Union parties had expressive gains.
Preliminary official results will have 48.7% of votes, a 10% gain.
SPD slid down to 30.7%. The social democrats' top candidate Klaus
Hemsch, in an interview to Radio Bavaria, said, "We did not succeed
in sufficiently motivating voters, in surmounting the wide-spread
lack of public interest in European elections, and in engaging
voters in the SPD's and the government's European policy. Not only
my party, but all parties will, within the coming 4 to 5 years
(until the next elections), have to convince voters of the fact
that important decisions are made in the European Union. Meaning
that we have to learn not to give prime importance to national
affairs only, blaming Brussels for all that goes wrong."
<P>
Following a meeting of his party's governing council, chancellor
Schroeder assumed co-responsibility for the SPD's electoral defeat.
Another reason for it he saw in the reduced number of voters.
Contrary to the Union parties, the SPD did not succeed in motivating their voters. In response to the electoral defeat, Schroeder
announced: "We have seen the writing on the wall. In consequence,
until June 30 we shall present a 5-point plan for economic and
internal affairs policies." In the first place, a corporate tax
reform is to reduce the corporate  tax rate to 25% and other
business tax rates to 10%. Secondly, the ecological tax system
will be given more importance. Thirdly, family compensations
will be improved as planned. The fourth point will be succeeding
with the planned 30 billion DM reduction of expenditures, which
Schroeder expects finance minister Eichel to accomplish. And
lastly, the federal government will honor the promise of toeing
the mark of economic stability as promised to Brussels.
<P>
CDU chairman Wolfgang Schaeuble had in na earlier press conference
given his analysis of the Union's electoral success: The result of
the elections is the outcome of the fact that the Union parties
have reacquired their advantage in competence as shown by opinion
polls. The Union parties are optimistic towards the upcoming round
of regional elections.
<P>
The Greens slid down to 6.4%, PDS achieved participation with 5.8%,
while FDP, with 3% of votes, remained outside.
<P>
The result of the election revived the dispute about nominating the
German representatives within the EU commission. The Union parties
feel they have a right to get one of the 2 positions within the
commission. CSU mentioned former minister of health Seehofer as a
possible candidate. On the other hand, the Greens claim one of the
2 positions in spite of their electoral losses.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-2>
<H1>
Economy reacts to European elections
</H1>
Both corporate bodies and labor unions demand a change of course
for the federal government in view of the outcome of European
elections, obviously diverging as to what these changes should be.
Spokespeople for the economy ask for strengthening of economic
growth, a more market oriented economy and an end to redistribution policies. In the opinion of the chairman of the German
Federation of Industry and Commerce, Stihl, the results are a
reflection of dissatisfaction with the government's handling
of low-income jobs ("630 DM law") and the increase of burdening
the economy with fringe labor expenditures. The metal workers'
union chairman Zwickel, on the other hand, came out in favor of
further measures to fight unemployment, guaranteed apprenticeship
positions, retirement at age 60, and more part-time jobs. SPD
politician Schloesser, chairman of Bavaria's labor union league,
accused his party of neglecting old-line social democrats and
reprehended ipsis litteris the "soft talk about a new center."

<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-3>
<H1>
Entry of Kosovo protection forces overshadowed by deaths
</H1>
The entry of the international peace forces into Kosovo was stained
by the death of two Serbs and two Germans. Yesterday, two people
working for Stern magazine had been shot to death by persons unknown, 40 km south of Kosovo's capital Pristina.
In a shoot-out with Serb irregulars, German soldiers had killed
two Serbs yesterday. A total of 14,000 troops of the protection
forces have entered Kosovo at last hearing.
<P>
Germany's soldiers had their first serious encounter when, following yesterday's shoot-out, they succeeded in avoiding a clash
between retiring Yugoslav troops and infuriated Albanians at Prizren. They used tanks to shield the warring parties from each other,
refueling several Serb vehicles so they could transport the retiring soldiers northward. Still, the situation continues to be very
critical. The Germans presume that irregulars are still hidden in
destroyed villages and burnt-out houses. On top of all that, UCK
fighters are said to be hiding in the town. Defense secretary of
state Wichert warned that German troops have not yet secured
Prizren: "We are facing a very difficult transition period until
we have our security troops in place. It will take some more time
to bring the situation in Prizren under control". The entry of
German soldiers goes ahead without interruption. According to
general inspector von Kempbach, 1,800 German troops have entered
the town. A rearguard contingent of 200 additional troops is
still under way.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-4>
<H1>
EU to play supporting role in Kosovo rebuilding efforts
</H1>
The European Union is to play an active role in rebuilding
Kosovo. According to UN Secretary General Anan the EU will be
responsible for re-establishing the material and economic infrastructure of the province. The Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe will re-establish the judicial system and
the local administration. The United Nations itself wants to
monitor and organize the return of Kosovo refugees. In the
meantime, the UN organisations have begun distributing emergency aid by supplying the distressed population with food,
water, and medical supplies.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-5>
<H1>
Loopholes in consumer protection
</H1>
Following the dioxin scandal in Belgium, the consumer protection
in the European Union will be improved. Agricultural minister
Fischler said at a meeting of EU Agriculutral Ministers that the
corresponding committees would also check whether regulations
should be tightened.
In a joint statement, the ministers criticized the Belgian government for its neglects in the dioxin scandal. In addition, they
called for the EU member states to exercise stricter food controls. Today, the Belgian government prohibited the sale of all
products of the Coca-Cola company throughout Belgium. This was
triggered by a new case of health complaints from school children
who had used Coca-Cola from a vending machine.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-14-6>
<H1>
Munich's mayor promises referendum on streetcar issue
</H1>
Munich's mayor Ude wants citizens to decide on the controversial
streetcar through the English Gardens. A few hours after his reelection, the social democrat stated that he wanted to call the
citizens to the polls if the Free State should continue to reject
the project after several months of in-depth evaluation. Ude
said: "I would like to see whether the state government has the
audacity to disregard a citizens' referendum." According to Ude,
building projects in the old city of Munich and alongside the
railroad tracks between the inner city and Munich-Laim are among
the tasks to be accomplished during the nexyt three years. In
addition, a final decision concerning the soccer stadium will
be made.

