<DOC de-news-1999-03-21-1>
<H1>
VAT increase
</H1>
It is reported that the German government is not opposed to increasing
value added tax. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder left this as an open
question in an interview with the ZDF television station. He said,
however, that it made absolutely no sense to discuss his planned
financial reform measures in detail at this stage as they were still
subject to revision. In an interview with the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag"
Ernst Schwanhold, deputy parliamentary leader of the SPD, appealed for a
debate free of taboos in order that the party could prepare for
unpleasant discussions. Even Christine Scheel of the Greens who is
chairman of the Financial Committee of the Bundestag has said, according
to the report, that an increase in VAT could not be ruled out. She said
it all depended on tax estimates in May. Michael Mueller, Minister of
Finance, said however to the "Bildzeitung" newspaper that he rejects an
increases just to compensate for budgetary deficits and that he would
rather support strict economising measures and cutbacks in subsidies.
Kerstin Mueller , spokesperson on financial affairs for the Greens, said
that increasing VAT was not acceptable, whether it be to finance the
planned financial reform of company taxation or for easing the financial
burden on families. Joachim Poss, the SPD's financial expert, however,
says that he cannot rule out an increase in VAT due to the deficit in
household budget amounting to billions of marks. He pointed out that the
German Constitutional Court's latest ruling that families be taxed less
would, according to estimates, case a deficit of at least 20 billion
marks. The Ministry of Finance have denied all reports that an increase
in VAT has already been decided on.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-21-2>
<H1>
Schroeder appeals for less criticism from economic leaders
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder has appealed to economic leaders in Germany to
temper down their criticism of the government. In an interview with ZDF
television, Mr. Schroeder said that leaders of economic associations in
Germany should hold back in negative campaigns. He continued that the
economy is only a part of society and that political decisions also have
to take general welfare into consideration. This was in response to
criticism of the government's tax reforms over the weekend.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-21-3>
<H1>
German Rail: homosexual couples equivalent to married couples
</H1>
German Rail will be putting homosexual couples on a par with married
couples from  April 1 this year, according to a spokesman for the
organisation. This means that homosexual couples will be able to purchase
partner railcards which cost half the regular price. Till date, only
married couples have been eligible for this discount. German Rail has
only one condition - the couple must prove that they live together.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-21-4>
<H1>
Demonstration against racism and xenophobia
</H1>
Around 1500 people demonstrated against racism and xenophobia today
(Sunday) in Berlin. They were protesting against the Christian Democrat
Party's signature campaign against double citizenship which was described
as instigating negative feelings against foreign citizens in Germany.
Many groups participated in the demonstration today as part of the
program on the International Day against Racism, including the
International League for Human Rights.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-21-5>
<H1>
Skinheads kill 58-year-old man
</H1>
Four skinhead teenagers have killed a 58-year-old man and injured five
passers-by in a park in Duisburg. The police said that the incident took
place on Wednesday last week. A spokesperson for the Police said that the
skinheads had been in a state of power euphoria and had just randomly
selected their victims. The public prosecutor has issued a warrant for
arrest for three of the four perpetrators. All have made comprehensive
confession of guilt.

