<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-1>
<H1>
Schroeder in Beijing
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder was unable to achieve any sort of rapprochement
between differing positions on the Kosovo question during his time in
Beijing. He acknowledged this fact after meetings with the Chinese
leadership. You must admit however, added the Chancellor, that the
proposal of the G-8 nations could be the foundation of a political
solution. He also apologized for the attack on the Chinese embassy in
Belgrade on behalf of NATO, and asked Premier Zhu Rongji to pass on the
apology to the relatives of the victims, and to the Chinese people. He
gave assurances that there would be an unrestricted investigation of the
incident. Schroeder also expressed his support for China's acceptance into
the World Trade Organization (WTO) this year. The Chancellor characterized
his meetings with the Chinese leadership as positive. It showed, he said,
that bilateral relations could withstand such a crisis.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-2>
<H1>
Schily: Germany may accept more refugees
</H1>
Federal Interior Minister Schily maintained the possibility of accepting
further refugees from Kosovo, above and beyond the current quota of
20,000. During his visit to the Macedonian capital of Skopje, Schily said
such a step must be considered if the situation in the crisis region
continues to deteriorate. Both federal and state Interior Ministers
decided last week to accept another 10,000 refugees. Today, the State
Premiers spoke out for a restrictive policy regarding the acceptance of
further refugees from Kosovo. The states are certainly ready to accept
further refugees, but there are limits, said State Premier Vogel of
Thuringia, at a special conference of State Premiers in Potsdam.
Meanwhile, the first of the 10,000 additional refugees from Kosovo arrived
in Germany. An aircraft with 210 refugees landed this afternoon at
Schoenefeld airport in Berlin. They are to be accommodated in Berlin and
Brandenburg.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-3>
<H1>
Radcke: Circumstances may imperil coalition with the SPD
</H1>
One day prior to the start of the Green Party's special congress in
Bielefeld regarding the conflict in Kosovo, the party leadership denied a
threat of resignation on the part of Foreign Minister Fischer. Executive
committee spokesperson Radcke characterized such reports as hearsay. She
said she had never personally heard Fischer say anything like that. She
did admit however, that the coalition with the SPD would be endangered if
the party congress decides to call for an immediate and unconditional end
to the NATO air campaign against Yugoslavia.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-4>
<H1>
USA reacts cautiously to the situation in Moscow
</H1>
The USA reacted cautiously to the dismissal of Russian Prime Minister
Primakov and the threat of Russian President Yeltsin to withdraw from the
diplomatic process surrounding Kosovo. With regard to Primakov's
departure, a speaker for the White House in Washington called it an
internal affair. The important thing is the continuation of economic
reform, the speaker said, not who carries it out. Apart from that, the
United States assumes that Russia will continue playing a constructive
roll in the search for a peaceful solution in Kosovo. Yeltsin justified
Primakov's dismissal, citing his lack of economic success, and nominated
Interior Minister Stepashin as Primakov's successor.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-5>
<H1>
Tax forecast interpreted as positive
</H1>
The working group for tax estimation today submitted its updated forecast
for the period leading up to 2003. According to the group, government
budgets for this year can expect a 3.4 billion DM increase with respect to
the estimate from November. In following years however, smaller tax
receipts are expected than were previously assumed. For the federal
government alone, the shortfall through 2003 will come to 18 billion DM.
Finance Minister Eichel heralded the forecast as confirmation of his
financial austerity measures.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-12-6>
<H1>
More slave-labor compensation claims against German firms
</H1>
Persons forced to work as slave laborers during the National Socialist
regime have filed new compensation claims against German firms in the
Stuttgart regional court. According to a spokesperson for the court, the
proceedings are directed against Daimler-Chrysler, Bosch, and in one case,
Porsche. The plaintiffs, who are from Poland and Denmark, seek as much as
98,000 DM in punitive damages and back wages. Several other former slave
laborers also filed compensation claims against Daimler-Chrysler and Bosch
last week.

