<DOC de-news-1998-05-22-1>
<H1>
CSU party congress in Ingolstadt
</H1>
A few days after sister party CDU had settled on their election manifesto,
Bavaria's CSU followed suit today. Now they'll have to match the two
parties' strategies and make them fit under a common umbrella.

<P>
More debates like the one about the eco-tax are not to be expected.
At the so-called small congress in Ingolstadt, however, the CSU was
not only focussing on the upcoming federal elections, but also on the
state elections - preceding the former by two weeks (on 13 September).
And they really packed their agenda: apart from general speeches by head
of the party Theo Waigel and premier Edmund Stoiber, there will be five
more about "Germany and Bavaria - a winner". Many are on tenter-hooks
about what Mr Peter Gauweiler, head of the Munich district of the CSU,
will tell them. He allegedly backs anti-immigration policies claiming that
Germany and Bavaria are no immigration-countries. General Secretary
Bernhard Protzner: "Foreigners who already are permanent residents will
have to fit in and become German citizens. If they've got rights, they'll
have to do their bit, too. And somehow or other we'll have to decide
what's going to happen to criminals who still are foreigners (yet
permanent residents)."

<P>
Head of the state parliamentary group Alois Glueck was into long-range
planning: he proposed a new social and citizen culture, boosting
self-reliance and solidarity and thus relieving the social net of some
of its burdens. Head of the party Waigel is expected to mainly lay into
SPD and PDS parties.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-22-2>
<H1>
Mr Schroeder wants to axe ministries
</H1>
Regardless of who wins the federal elections, austerity is to reign supreme.
Why? According to the most recent tax-revenue projections, there will be a
shortfall of 99 billion marks unitl 2001. SPD candidate Schroeder
stated that if he would win he would axe some ministries. As early as last
Wednesday he had reacted to the new figures and asked for an opening of
the books, as the situation was more serious than Finance Minister Waigel
had tried to make the general population believe. In an interview with
the tabloid BILD, he declared that he would go for a lean government if
he won. If you do have to save, you start at the top. And he also said
that there would have to be a re-think as far as finance for the SPD's
plans was concerned. If he became Chancellor he would not make a decision
without asking first if this would create new jobs or not. Boosting
the economy should be done differently, namely by raising wages above the
rate of inflation. This would stimulate domestic demand. If business
made good money, the workers should get their share, too, according to
Mr Schroeder.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-22-3>
<H1>
SPD tries to lean on government because of nuclear waste transports
</H1>
The SPD wants to lean on government asking for a special session of the
environmental committee in parliament, after high radiation readings on
nuclear waste containers (so-called Castor containers) were discovered
recently. Environmental spokesperson Lennartz, of the parliamentary group
of the SPD, doubted that environment minister Merkel had not known about
the high readings previously. She would have to resign if she had not
said the truth, according to Mr Lennartz.

<P>
Yesterday Ms Merkel had put a hold on all Castor-movements. She does not
consider resigning over the matter though. Her spokesperson, Gertrud
Saler, said that whatever could have been measured in Germany, had been
measured

<DOC de-news-1998-05-22-4>
<H1>
Comparative ads are fine now
</H1>
Germany's Federal Court of Justice (Bundesgerichtshof) heeded advice
from Brussels, the EU headquarters, amending current rulings:
comparative ads are now legal, provided comparisons are neither
misleading nor derogatory/libellous to the competitor. And they
also have to be about qualities that can be verified and are typical.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-22-5>
<H1>
Second Soccer Division
</H1>
Rising star 1.FC Nuernberg stumbled close to the finish in the second
division: they had to settle for 2:2 against SG Wattenscheid (who can't
afford to lose). So two days before this year's soccer-seasons finishes,
the runner-up's still not quite there. Following are some more second
division results:
