<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-1>
<H1>
Stoiber becomes head of CSU
</H1>
Bavarian Minister President Edmund Stoiber is now also the new head of
the CSU.  At the extraordinary party convention in Munich, Stoiber
received 880 of the 942 valid votes, or 93.4%.  While this is not a bad
result, the CSU has also seen more emphatic endorsements in the past.
Franz-Joseph Strauss still holds the record with 99%; Stoiber's
predecessor Theo Waigel pulled 98.3 per cent of the vote at his first
election to party head ten years ago.

<P>
Following the election, Stoiber called on the delegates to perpetuate
the profile of the CSU as the large people's party in Bavaria.  The CSU
also holds responsibilities for Germany and Europe, its new chairman
said.  The party doesn't ride all the latest fashion waves, yet has
often been a pacemaker throughout its history, said Stoiber.  The
retiring party chief Waigel drew a conclusion of the ten years of his
leadership and earned much applause. While very exhausting, these ten
years have also been very successful, Waigel said. Even at this party
convention, Waigel and Stoiber could not set aside their old rivalry.
Others gave praising and parting words for Waigel, but not Stoiber; in
return, Waigel "forgot" to recommend Stoiber as his official successor.

<P>
Immediately after his election, Stoiber defended the CSU's signature
gathering campaign to fight the dual citizenship proposed by the
federal government.  The campaign began today in the states of Hesse
and Berlin.  In Frankfurt, the campaign led to skirmishes as autonomous
groups attempted to prevent citizens from signing the petition.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-2>
<H1>
SPD fights about legitimacy of nuclear waste transports
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder is adamant about halting the reprocessing of
nuclear waste, to the extent that he is not deterred by possible
conflicts with SPD state premiers.  He was sure to make this clear at
The Greens' national party convention to which he was invited as a
guest speaker.  At the same time, Schroeder called it a necessity to
transport German nuclear waste from the French reprocessing plant at La
Hague back to Germany.  This is exactly what the SPD Minister
Presidents of North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony, Clement and
Glogowski respectively, have opposed.  Schroeder reiterated that the
authorization of such transports is a matter of the federal government,
not of the states.  The question of dual citizenship was another point
on the agenda of the meeting between Schroeder and The Greens'
parliamentary group.  Both Schroeder and The Greens' spokesperson
Kerstin Mueller summarized the ninety-minute discussion as extremely
stimulating.  Mr. Schroeder said he has acknowledged The Greens'
criticism on the immigration reform bill.  He noted, however, that in a
coalition, nobody ever gets everything.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-3>
<H1>
Schaeuble denies growing competition between CDU and CSU
</H1>
CDU chairman Schaeuble has refuted speculations about growing
competition between both Union parties [CDU, CSU].  Addressing these
concerns at the CSU convention in Munich, he said: "We are proud of our
sister, the CSU."

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-4>
<H1>
Buhlman intends to adjust BAFoeG in regular intervals
</H1>
The Federal Education Minister Ms. Buhlman wants to implement timely
increases of the federal scholarship grants for students in higher
education (BAFoeG) during the reform of the corresponding legislation,
planned for next year.  According to Ms. Buhlman, the grants to
students should be adjusted in regular intervals to the average
increase in the cost of living.  In return, students receiving BAFoeG
are expected to attain their "Vordiplom" or "Zwischenpruefung" within 4
semesters.  [Translator's note: The "Vordiplom" or "Zwischenpruefung"
is roughly equivalent in content with a Bachelor's degree in the U.S.]

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-5>
<H1>
Self-critique of PDS
</H1>
The internal conflict within the PDS about which political direction to
take was a subject of the party convention in Berlin today.  Bundestag
member Petra Bless opined that the next few years would be critical for
the party's survival.  She said that the party's profile has
deteriorated to the point where the party is no longer perceived as a
modern, left-socialist organization.  At the beginning of the
convention, chairman Lothar Bisky urged party members to speak with one
voice.  For a few weeks, internal party conflicts have been smoldering,
mainly about two topics: the suggestion of an amnesty for crimes
committed in former East Germany and the employment of former East
German spy Rainer Rupp in the PDS' parliamentary group.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-6>
<H1>
New regulation for co-payments on prescription drugs
</H1>
SPD and The Greens appear intent on overhauling the current system of
co-payments for prescription drugs.  According to the "Hannoversche
Allgemeine", starting in 2000, the percentage of the price of
prescription drugs paid by the patients will be oriented on the
effectiveness of a medication.  Co-payments would then be very small or
nil for life-saving drugs.  Federal Health Minister Ms. Fischer
confirmed the report.  However, no precise resolutions have been made
yet.  According to press reports, the coalition may be considering a
list of medications that will be paid by all public health insurers.
Drugs for which the effectiveness is not proved would have to be paid
in full by the patient.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-16-7>
<H1>
Maurer not to run again for head of Southwest SPD
</H1>
The head of the Southwest SPD, Mr. Maurer, will not run again for the
office of party head at the state party convention in July.  Following
consultations with leaders of the federal and state SPD, Maurer said he
wants to concentrate on his assignments as head of the parliamentary
group and opposition leader in the Baden-Wuerttemberg state parliament.
The nomination of candidates for state elections in 2001 is not to be
decided before mid-2000.

