<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-1>
<H1>
Deportation of convicted foreigners made easier
</H1>
 Under a revision of the immigration law, passed by the Bundestag
with a two-thirds majority, foreigners, who are sentenced to more than
three years in prison, will have to leave Germany and can more easily be
deported than in the past.  In addition, foreigners risk deportation if
they are charged with participation in unauthorized protest rallies.
Under these circumstances, no court hearing or conviction are necessary.
The revision furthermore grants permanent visas to foreign wives in the
case of a divorce.  Under the old rules, the right to stay existed only
if the marriage had lasted for more than three years in Germany.
Divorced wives who are dependent on social welfare, however, continue to
be subject to deportation.  The compromise passed today had been
negotiated by the mediation committee between Bundestag and Bundesrat.
The bill still has to be passed by the Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-2>
<H1>
Bundestag passes tax reform
</H1>
 With the votes of the Coalition, the Bundestag has passed the tax
bill.  On the bottom line, the reform contains tax breaks of roughly DM 33
billion.  Next year the solidarity surcharge is to be reduced from 7.5 to
5.5 percent.  In the year after that, income tax, currently ranging from
25.9 to 53 percent is to drop to between 15 and 39 percent.  The levels
of corporate tax will be significantly lower as well.  Conversely,
CDU/CSU and FDP want to sacrifice certain tax privileges enjoyed by
companies and citizens.  In 2003, bonus payments for work on Sundays,
holidays and at night will become subject to full taxation.  The amount
exempt from capital gains tax will be halved to DM 3,000.  The Coalition
wants to implement the elimination of tax deductions for businesses as
early as next year in an attempt to limit tax options allowing the
application losses against profits.  However, it is already clear that
both bills will fail in the Bundesrat.  The SPD has announced that it will
oppose the tax reform in the Bundesrat [the chamber of legislature
representing the States] at the reading on Friday of next week.

<P>
During the debate, lasting over five hours, a dispute about the future course
in tax policy arose.  The Opposition criticized the government for being
irresponsible about the federal budget as no other government has been
before.  The SPD said the bill is too expensive.  The head of the SPD
parliamentary group, Mr. Scharping, accused the government of intending
fraud by keeping citizens in the dark about burdens they will have to
bear, in order for tax breaks to be financed.  The head of the CDU/CSU
parliamentary group, Mr. Schaeuble, accused the SPD of engaging in tactical
distractions without genuinely pursuing consensus.  Neither the job market
nor the climate for investments would benefit from a policy of blockade,
Mr. Schaeuble said.  Finance Minister Waigel called on the SPD to
contribute to the reform.

<P>
The National Association of German Industry (BDI) has criticized the
Coalition's plans.  The BDI argued that the tax burden for industry would
increase further and that the laws would send negative signals to investors.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-3>
<H1>
Anti-corruption law passed
</H1>
This evening the Bundestag passed an anti-corruption law by a large majority.
The law is intended to counter the growing incidence of bribery and
corruptibility within management and private industry.  Under the new law,
particularly serious cases of corruption can be punished with prison sentences
of up to ten years.  According to the Frankfurt district attorney and
corruption expert, Mr. Schaupensteiner, the state loses in excess of DM 10
billion each year through corruption in the public construction industry
alone.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-4>
<H1>
Tug-of-war over Eurofighter continues
</H1>
 There is still no sign of a settlement in the tug-of war between
Defense Minister, Mr. Ruehe, and Finance Minister, Mr. Waigel, over the
Bundeswehr [German armed forces] budget and the Eurofighter.  After two hours
of high-level talks, held on the fringes of the Bundestag session, both
politicians spoke simply of "a good discussion".  They were not prepared to go
into details.  It appears, however, that the views of the two ministers were
not so very far apart.  There is still a DM 2 billion shortfall in the DM 23
billion budget for the Eurofighter.  This gap will have to be plugged by the
year 2000.  Meanwhile, the British Defense Minister, George Robertson, has
warned the German government against pulling out of the joint construction
project.  Mr. Robertson said, abandoning plans to build the fighter plane
would be a stab-in-the-back for the European aviation industry, at a time when
it really needs to stand up to competition from America.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-5>
<H1>
Assistance for Eastern Germany extended
</H1>
 The Bundestag today passed a bill to extend the aid program for Eastern
Germany, which had been due to expire at the end of 1998.  Between now and the
year 2004 the new states will be entitled to tax relief to a total of more
than DM 30 billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-6>
<H1>
No sale of government's Telekom shares
</H1>
 The Federal Government does not intend to sell Telekom shares
on the stock market before the year 2000.  This was disclosed by Telekom
chairman Mr. Sommer, at the company's first share-holder convention in
Frankfurt.  However, the Government will deposit a quarter of its
Telekom stock at the State Credit Agency for Reconstruction.  This way,
investors will be able to purchase Telekom shares at market value, but
will be barred from selling them at the stock market before 2000.
According to calculations by the daily "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung"
these shares will produce 25 billion marks in revenue for the government.
Telekom emphasized that this maneuver is in full agreement with the
company's prospectus.  Share-holders' interests as well as the company's
strategic position are duly observed.  At the share-holder convention,
Mr. Sommer presented positive results.  Telekom's total turnover amounted
to more than 63 billion marks, an increase of six percent.  Going public
last November increased the company's total value from 78 to more than
100 billion DM.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-7>
<H1>
Employers: VW model of old-age part-time work inapplicable elsewhere
</H1>
 In the opinion of the Employers' Association, the model of old-age
part-time work at Volkswagen is not useful for other branches of the German
economy.  President Hundt of the Employers' Association said that applying
this model would be too expensive.  Mr. Hundt emphasized his demand to offer
old-age part-time employment on a purely voluntary basis, but not to
require it by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-8>
<H1>
Jehovah's Witnesses not a public corporation
</H1>
 The religious cult of the Jehovah's Witnesses does not qualify as
a public corporation.  The Federal Administrative Court thereby revoked a
finding to the contrary by a lower court.  The Court argued that because
the Jehovah's Witnesses oppose participation in public elections, they
contradict the democratic principle.  Therefore they could not benefit
from privileges granted to churches, the judges found.  This includes the
levy of church tax and certain tax exemptions.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-9>
<H1>
Has Bundeswehr used unsafe missile system?
</H1>
 Defense Minister Ruehe has pledged to investigate accusations that
the Bundeswehr deployed an unsafe missile system in former Yugoslavia.
The TV magazine "Panorama" on ARD [public TV network] reported that on
several occasions rockets of the guided missile system 'HARM' went out of
control after launch, without reaching their designated targets, namely
Serbian defense positions.  According to "Panorama", at least two HARM
missiles crashed and detonated in Hungary.  A spokesman explained that the
Bundeswehr did not launch a single of these missiles in former Yugoslavia.
According to the news agency dpa, the missiles in question were of
American or Italian origin.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-26-10>
<H1>
Seven years for manslaughter of punk
</H1>
 The Magdeburg Regional Court has sentenced a 17-year-old to seven
years youth custody on charges of manslaughter, in connection with the
death of the punk Mr. Boettcher.  After the hearing, which proceeded
behind closed doors, the court's spokesperson said that the convict was
part of the right-wing extremist milieu, and had kicked the victim in the
head and stabbed him in the back seven times with a knife.  As an
extenuating circumstance, the court took into account that the defendant
had been intoxicated at the time of the crime.

