<DOC de-news-1999-09-16-1>
<H1>
Bundestag argues over budgetary policy
</H1>
During the Bundestag's budgetary debate, discussions of the budget of the
Chancellor traditionally develop into general statements on the politics of
the Federal Government. Considering the recent losses of the SPD in the
state parliament elections,  this year's discussion between government and
opposition was especially harsh. However, both sides also signaled
willingness to compromise. During the debate, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder
confirmed the will of his government for saving. Debts will have to be
reduced in order to obtain social justness, he said. He denied allegations
of deliberate and false pension politics. " Pensions will increase more in
the years 2000 and 2001 than they ever have in the past four years of your
government - and this is the truth which you deliberatly keep quiet about -
and those who keep the truth hidden, really lies." Chairperson of The
Greens, Kerstin Mueller, said that, with respect to this issue, the
opposition practices real and large-scale stultification of the people.
Chairman of the Union, Wolfgang Schaeuble, hinted at common tax and social
politics, but accused the Chancellor of having failed in important areas.
"Big announcements but little substance. DM 30 bn are supposed to be saved,
because apparently Eichel and Schroeder suddenly recognised total public
debts as a problem. In reality, this is another gigantic misleading". CSU
state chairman Michael Glos called the government a plague for Germany. The
Chancellor would present rather than rule. "Today you left your path as a
modernizer, and returned to the old comrade-jargon. You won't be able to
manage things in such a way". Also the FDP complained that the Chancellor
talks but doesn't act. PDS asked Schroeder not to cling stubornly to his
directions which affect the socially weak.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-16-2>
<H1>
Transrapid only single-track for time being
</H1>
According to Federal Transport Minister Muentefering, the Federal
Government will built the much discussed magnet train Transrapid, due to
financial reasons, only as single-track. He confirmed that the agreed
federal support of DM 6.1 bn will not be increased. Muentefering's
successor, the voted out Saarlandian Prime Minister Klimmt, is considered a
critics of the project.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-16-3>
<H1>
Vatikan not satified with compromise on consultation of pregnant women
</H1>
Discussions of church-run consultation offices for pregnant women
contuinue. As has become clear today from an official Vatican report, the
Pope rejects the compromise which German bishops agreed upon in June. Also,
another written order of the Pope has been announced for next week. German
bishops and politicians will have to prepare themselves for another
discussion of the issue of abortion. First comments were made in Berlin.
Consultation of pregnant women by the catholic church would not be an issue
of the actual fact any more, but rather a power struggle of the German
bishops. Christa Nickels, church-political spokesperson of The Greens, says
that the liberal chairman of the German Bishops Conference, Karl Lehmann,
is being deliberately harmed by his opponents, the bishops of Cologne and
Fulda, prior to his re-election. "This really is not an expression of
christian honour. One has to turn around in disgust. And this is, of
course, political calculation". Also Maria Eichhorn (CSU) regrets that some
of the bishops who initially had agreed to the compromise, supported the
Pope's intervention in Rome. If the catholic church will have to give up
its consultations of pregnant women, Maria Eichhorn doesn't rule out that
more and more people will leave the church. " I can imagine that, if this
decision will be made, there might be a movement such as it exists in
Austria. Many christians don't understand their church any more. I have to
say, I don't either". Politicians from other parties welcomed the
initiative of the central committe of German Catholics. Today, the committe
started a donation campaign for maintaining the consultations. Catholics
are called upon their consciousness, they say.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-16-4>
<H1>
Fischer presents report on how to save money on drugs and remedies
</H1>
In August, Federal Minister for Health, Andrea Fischer, agreed with
representatives of the health insurances and medical doctors on ways hoe
the drugs budget could be constrained. In future, practitioners shall write
out prescriptions according to the rule "as little as possible, as much as
required". Today, a program was presented how this can be realised. The
most important part: starting immediately, practitioners shall only
presribe the cheaper imitations drugs, so-called generica. Juergen Bausch
from the federal health insurance association explained that such generica
contain exactly the same compounds as the original drug; there are no
disadvantages for the patient. However, it does mean that patients will
have to get used to a new, but as effective, medication during the course
of their therapy. Furthermore, the program includes that minor medications
such as cough syrup or cold remedies will not be covered by insurances any
more. Although this has been law for several years, it still has often been
done in practice. Doubtful medical drugs also will not be prescribed and
covered by insurances any more. Health Minister Fischer left open what will
happen if doctors, despite all efforts to save, still exceed their annual
budget. The law is valid, Mrs. Fischer said, but she leaves it open if she
will apply the law to each case and ask the doctors to pay.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-16-5>
<H1>
Federal German bar endeavors extradition of RAF-terrorist
</H1>
The Federal German bar endeavors extradition of the alleged RAF-terrorist
Andrea-Maria Klump from Austria. Yesterday, Klump and the former RAF-member
Klaus-Ludwig Meier were caught in a police patrol in Vienna. During a
shoot-out, Meier was killed, and Klump was arrested. The 42-yrs old woman
is accused of, between others, having been involved in the assassination of
the Chairman of the Deutsche Bank, Alfred Herrhausen, in November 1989.

