<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-1>
<H1>
Former Bavarian State Premier dies
</H1>
Former Bavarian State Premier Max Streibl, who unexpectedly passed away
recently, will get a state funeral next Thursday, in Munich's Residenz
building. 66-year old Mr Streibl apparently had had a heart-attack last
night. According to his family he had travelled to Munich to have a look
at the Christmas Market yesterday afternoon. While sleeping at his Munich
apartment, he had suffered a heart attack. Emergency doctors were unable
to do help. Politicians of all parties were shocked by his death. State
Premier Edmund Stoiber said in an eulogy that Mr Streibl had been one of the
great politicians of postwar Bavaria. Head of the CSU Waigel said that it was
largely due to Mr Streibl's efforts that Bavaria had become one of the most
successful regions of Europe. Bavaria's head of the SPD Renate Schmidt
remarked that in view of Mr Streibl's achievements slip-ups during his reign
would appear to be minor. She was referring to the so-called "Amigo Affair" -
political wheeling-dealing between friends/mates, often at the expense of the
taxpayer. Mr Streibl had to take his hat in 1993, after accusations of graft.
He had succeeded Mr Franz Josef Strauss when the latter died in 1988.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-2>
<H1>
European heads of state meet in Vienna for talks about Europe
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder said he was happy with the consultations of European
heads of state. At the end of day one, he said on ARD-TV that the members
would be inclined to agree on more fairness as far as contributions were
concerned. In the long term Germany's payments would not rise any more,
but rather go down. At this meeting in Vienna there had been no agreement,
however, on reorganising the EU's finances. Britain only hinted that they
would give up part of their discount if there were fundamental changes to
the EU's agricultural policies. But they would never agree to negotiations
about the special rates granted to them. All agreed on a time-frame for
the "Agenda 2000" reforms: the new completion-date now is  March 1999.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-3>
<H1>
Greens create new party body
</H1>
Tonight the federal conference of the Greens cleared the track for a new
executive. The realo-political wing's remit to totally scrap the ban on
cumulation of jobs - meaning members of parliament and ministers can't have
party-jobs at the same time - failed. The approximately 750 delegates
agreed in principle to elect a new body, a party council. Its job would be
to better co-ordinate work between federal and state bodies as well as
the federal parliamentary group. The council is to have 25 members, including
a maximum of 12 members of governments and parliaments (both state and
federal). The existing ban will be waived only for them. There will be a
final vote tonight. The 2/3 majority required to get the new council
established may not be achieved.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-4>
<H1>
Industry leader criticises European initiative for employment
</H1>
Industry leader Stihl criticised government's plans for a European
initiative for employment. He said in Bonn that 'if you didn't want
flexibility in the national labour market you told the Europeans to fix
things'. The problems, however, were bred in Germany. Apparently Great
Britain and the Netherlands, with unemployment levels of 6.3% and 3.5%
respectively, would have done better as far as their economic policies were
concerned than Germany (almost 10% unemployment). The Federal Employers
Federation criticised the decision to abolish the previous reduction of paid
sick-leave.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-5>
<H1>
Mr Trittin tells nuclear power industry to hold their horses
</H1>
Federal Environment Minister Trittin, Alliance90/Greens, asked the nuclear
power industry to hold their horses in the debate about getting out of nuclear
power generation. Head of the Bayernwerk Majewski had threatened a classaction suit at the Supreme Constitutional Court in case severe cuts were
made to the tax-exemption of reserves for decommissioning of nuclear
power-plants. That would then put paid to any talks about how to get out of
nuclear power generation. Mr Trittin had written in the newspaper LEIPZIGER
VOLKSZEITUNG that preferential treatment of these reserves would be a
classical case of subsidising taxes. If all and sundry who were hit by the
taxman appealed to the courts, the latter would soon be unable to cope with
the workload.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-11-6>
<H1>
Ongoing criticism of Mr Vilmar's statements
</H1>
The debate about criticism of what Mr Vilmar had said about the health ad-hoc
initiative, kept going this Friday. Mr Vilmar is president of the Federal
Association of Medical Practitioners. Public health insurers asked Mr Vilmar
to say sorry, but he did not, rather repeated what he had already said
earlier on. Mr Vilmar had stated that government's initiative required
patients to do without certain services and consequenty die earlier, yet in
a 'socially compatible/correct' way. Fellow medical practitioners, too, were
outraged.

