<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-1>
<H1>
Bluem in the center of a disagreement over pension reform
</H1>
In the battle over pension reform, Work Minister Bluem is cought in the center
of the disagreement. Today again he had to bear the brunt of criticism from
Chancellor Kohl. The Chancellor characterized Bluem's position on the pension
question as completely unacceptable. The head of the CDU/CSU faction, Schaeuble,
conversely, tried to put the Work Minister under his protection. He characterized the Bluem suggestions as a good basis for discussion. The plan is for the
pension to be reduced from 70 to 64 percent of the net income, and that extrainsurance income should be financed out of the Federal budget.

<P>
The pension commission of the CDU/CSU coalition will apparently support the reform plans of the Work Minister Bluem. Outside of the caucus in Frankfurt, participants said that the subject of the consideration of aging and the
pension limit have been addressed. There is unity on the idea that the limit
cannot be reduced under 64 percent, and that no new taxes on pensions are to be
introduced. The suggestion for a tax-financed family account to take a part of
the income from outside of insurance sources was greeted with generally positive
reactions.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-2>
<H1>
Scharping broaches subject of new elections
</H1>
The chair of the SPD Bundestag faction, Scharping, has suggested new elections
in the face of the coalition-internal disagreements over tax and pension reforms. In an interview with the "Koelner Stadtanzeiger" Scharping said that
the Chancellor had banked heavily on his authority. He also said that the coalition was in a frail condition, and that it could only be preserved by the
demonstration of the inescapability of its elective advantage. Scharping further
opined that the best option for Germany, with the lack of solutions from the
coalition, would be new elections. A governmental federation between Social
Democrats and the Union excluded the SPD leader. Scharping reinforced the objections of the SPD to raising the Value Added Tax. He also signaled against any
possibility of compromise on the point of a possible increase in mineral oil
tax.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-3>
<H1>
BDI demands changes in the planned tax reforms
</H1>
The Federal Organization of German Industry (BDI) is demanding changes in the
planned tax reform. Organization president Henkel especially opposed restrictions of deductions for threatening losses in an interview with the news magazine "FOCUS". That would be a severe blow against liquidity and stability of
corporations, Henkel said. His assessment of the reform is that it would cause
higher liabilities for capital-intensive and continually-investing firms. The
BDI president stressed at the same time that the reform was gutsy, and came more
quickly than expected. It could lead to more investment, economic growth and to
creation of more jobs.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-4>
<H1>
Tax Payers' League suggests budget savings plan for government and parliament
</H1>
The Tax Payers' League asked for a budgetary savings plan for the government
and the parliament. In the view of its president Daeke, Bonn has to be a role
model and in set its own business an example so that the citizens can more
easily accept the demands of austerity. Another important component of the
gavernment's behavior is the government's own credibility.
In a newspaper interview Daenke suggested a reduction in ministerial slots from
the present 16 to 10. In this way the Health Ministry could be merged with that
for Families, Seniors, Women and Youth. The realm of Communication, which has
until now been subsumed in the Postal Ministry, should be taken over by the
Future Ministry. Beyond these the ministries of Agriculture, Traffic, Construction and Economic Cooperation could be dissolved, according to Daeke. Their
portfolios could be assumed by other ministries with no further work necessary.
The government could also pick up the red pencil in tax reform and, for example,
reexamine the tax-free franking privileges of Bundestag delegates. The value of
franked mail was raised to 6,251 DM on New Year's day. The League suggests reducing it to a grant of 1,000 DM. Costs above this limit should only be reimbursed against receipts, with an upper limit of 5,000 DM allowed.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-5>
<H1>
Audit office charges Wissmann with mismanagement of billions
</H1>
The Federal Audit office has charged Business Minister Wissmann with mismanagement in the range of billions of marks. Monies for the transport of goods
over rails were not used for those purposes, the auditor's report that lies now
before the budget committee states. The SPD is demanding Wissmann's resignation.
The Transport Ministry admitted problems with the reassignation of the project
and announced a position against the budget committee.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-6>
<H1>
Continuing negative trend in the work market
</H1>
The negative trend in the labor market continues. The Federal Office for Labor
announced that January has left a record number of unemplayed to cope with. No
exact numbers were given by President Jagoda, but he is nonetheless certain that
they lie somewhere above those for December, when 4,148,000 workers had no job.
This is the highest level in December ever found in the Federal Republic. Jagoda
is nonetheless going from the assumption that in the month just passed yet
another new record has been reached. He holds the corporations partially responsible for the misery on the labor market. He says that the industries do not
have enough confidence to create and maintain positions, rather make the living
standard of Germany worse than it already is. Jagoda especially condemned the
eastern federal states, where too little investment is occuring. Jagoda
maintains that there are investment enticements there for which one would have
to voyage far into Asia.
Employers also said today that they were reckoning with further climb in the
unemployment figures for the first half of this year. Starting in the summer,
however, employment will increase, especially in exporting industries. This was
asserted by the CEO of the Federal Union of Employers' Organizations, Goener.
Federal Finance Minister Rexrodt gave a similar assessment last week. In the
forecasts of his yearly economic report Rexrodt said he expected a turn in the
labor market.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-7>
<H1>
Borchert enumerates errors in the EU battle against BSE
</H1>
Federal Agricultural Minister Borchert admitted that omissions were made in the
EU battle against the cow disease BSE. On the European level, but above all in
Great Britain fitting steps were not taken at the right time, Borchert told the
"Lausitzer Rundschau". He does not have any comprehension, however, for the
import bans on German beef imposed by Poland, Hungary and Croatia. Apparently
these countries were not sufficiently informed about the most recent BSE cases,
he said. Clues were accumulating as of yesterday to indicate that the deceased
Galloway steer was not born in Germany, but was imported out of Great Britain.
The Agricultural Ministry in Schwerin explained that there appear to have been
irregularities with the certificate of origin of the animal. Definitive results
will come from the genetic testing.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-8>
<H1>
Federal government wants to coordinate BSE research
</H1>
After the latest BSE case in Germany the federal government wants to
coordinate research work on fighting the disease both within the nation and
Europe-wide. "Welt am Sonntag" reports about just such a decision of the
Federal Ministries for Agriculture, Health and Research. The federal government
has planned 11 billion marks for BSE research between now and 1999.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-9>
<H1>
No reduction in sexual crime after higher penalties
</H1>
Increased penalties against sexual criminals do not contribute to the
reduction of number of sex crimes, in the view of Justice Minister
Schmidt-Jartzig. Potential criminals are not influenced by several years of imprisonment, Schmidt-Jartzig said in a newspaper interview. Longer sentences do
not serve a deterrent purpose, rather serve to exhibit society's loathing. The
Federal Justice Minister supported more therapy availability, and said this was
not a place to save money.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-10>
<H1>
Huber out in Tokyo
</H1>
At the WTA tennis tournament in Tokyo, Anke Huber was eliminated in the semifinal. She lost to the Swiss player Martina Hingis in three sets by 1-6;7-5;2:6.
In the second semifinal Steffi Graf beat the Dutch player Brenda Schultz-
McCarthy. The final is now set for Graf against Hingis.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-01-11>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
The cold front of a low with a center over northwest Russia is moving to the
southwest. The polar air following it will soon meet a high pressure system.
The forecast: In central and southern Germany heavy cloud cover, with snow above
all in the highlands. In northern Germany dry and sunny, extending to central
Germany in the afternoon. Temperatures from 0 to 4 Centigrade, nightly lows
from -4 to -13 Centigrade. Further outlook: Clouds moving in from the west, from
the Weser and Werra light snow or rain. On Monday snow in the east, in the west
cloudy and intermittant showers. Very cold.

