<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-1>
<H1>
Discussion about expected diminished tax revenue for federal budget
</H1>
The federal government wants to balance this year's expected diminished tax
revenue by reducing expenditures to avaid tax increases. This was the
result of a meeting of top Christian Union politicians headed by Chancellor
Helmut Kohl. Details about the cuts were not presented. According to news
agency DPA Finance Minister Theo Waigel said it was not necessary to
increase the fuel tax. Defence Minister Volker Ruehe stated that further
cuts in the military were impossible.
The expert committee for revenue estimation met today in Schwerin. The
results of the meeting will be announced on Thursday. Finance Minister Theo
Waigel expects a tax revenue of DM10bn less than budgeted. According to
some newspapers sources in the Finance Ministry expect a lack of DM20bn.
The Finance Minister, however, renounced reports that a Small Expenditure
Freeze had been issued. The daily Berliner Morgenpost had reported that
federal institutions had been charged to reduce all expenditures and
contributions by 15 percent because of expected reduced revenue. The
Finance Ministry commented that this was not a freeze but a reservation in
case cuts became necessary. The parliamentary factions of CDU/CSU and FDP
will discuss in separate meetings the results of the expert committee on
revenue estimation.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-2>
<H1>
Construction industry: employers accept further negotiations
</H1>
Chances for reaching a collective agreement for the construction industry
by negotiation have reappeared. Both employers associations declared they
are ready to continue talks with the Union for Construction, Agriculture,
and Environment even before this Sunday. The two associations demanded,
however, that the union must not set any preconditions. The union's
ultimatum to start new talks by May 21 was considered a dictate and was
therefore rejected. The employers suggested that the new talks be moderated
again by CDU politician Heiner Geissler who had presented an adjudication
on Thursday. The adjudication, however, was rejected yesterday by a vast
majority of the union's top bargaining commission because the adjudication
stipulated cuts to sick pay. Union leader Wiesehuegel stressed that he was
ready to negotiate but at the same time he made clear hat the union
rejected the adjudication. Another adjudication process was out of the
question. The union would accept cuts elsewhere in compensation for full
sick pay, employers on the other hand insist on reducing sick pay because
they expect that it will reduce the sickness rate.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-3>
<H1>
Reserved reactions on Russian pillaged art law
</H1>
The German government has shown reserved reactions about the Russian
Federation Council's decision that German art objects taken to Russia after
World War II are Russian property. German government spokesman Haussmann
pointed at President Yeltsin's announcement to appeal to the Constitutional
Court. In Germany's view the Russian pillaged art law violates
international law. Germany demands from Russia the return of numerous
pillaged art objects, amongst others the so-called Treasure of Priamos that
for a long time had been assumed lost.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-4>
<H1>
Federation of Unions wants to continue talks on pensions
</H1>
In contrast to the Social-Democrats the German Federation of Unions, DGB,
wants to continue talks with the government about a reform of the pension
plan system. Deputy chair of DGB Ursula Engelen-Kefer said her organization
wanted to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that people need not
worry any longer. SPD leader Oskar Lafontaine defended again his party's
rejection saying that negotiations about a reform of the pension plan would
take place in parliament and for that the government first had to introduce
a bill.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-5>
<H1>
Seehofer rejects cannabis pilot trial
</H1>
Federal Health Minister Horst Seehofer has not approved
Schleswig-Holstein's application for a pilot trial of a limited
distribution of cannabis. Seehofer argued that the trial would have
disastrous effects on all attempts to prevent addictions. He also had to
turn down the application on legal grounds. The trial provided that any
person older than 16 would be allowed to buy a one-day dose of 5 g cannabis
in a pharmacy.
Along similar lines the Government Commissioner for Drugs, Mr. Lindner
mentioned that the establishment of rooms where drug addicts can take their
drugs in some federal states was illegal, as well as Schleswig-Holstein's
attitude not to prosecute the possession of up to 30 g of cannabis. It was,
however, hardly possible for the federal government to force a federal
state to abide by the law. According to Lindner the federal government's
restrictive drug policy has not failed although the number of drug-related
deaths has increased for the first time within five years. Of all European
countries only Norway had fewer drug-related deaths than Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-6>
<H1>
Higher return and profit for German Telekom
</H1>
German Telekom was able to considerably increase its return and profits in
1996 when it was introduced on the stock market. The company had a return
of DM63.1bn or just under 6 percent more than in 1995. The profit totalled
DM1.8bn. The result of usual business activity was as much as DM6.6bn.
Telekom CEO Ron Sommer stated at today's press conference that all evidence
indicated that 1997 would be an even more prosperous year. During the first
quarter German Telekom had returns of DM16.3bn and a profit of DM2.2bn
before taxes.
Meanwhile, job reductions at German Telekom proceed faster than expected.
Last year the company reduced the number of employees by 12,500 and in the
first quarter of 1997 by another 2000. Thus, there remain 199,000 employees
with German Telekom.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-7>
<H1>
Federal general elections scheduled for 27 September 1998
</H1>
Elections for the next Bundestag have been scheduled for 27 September 1998
following an agreement between CDU and CSU. Sources within the Union
parties said that elections for the Bavarian state parliament would
presumably take place 2 weeks earlier on 13 September 1998. The SPD
commented that the party was not opposed to the date. The final decision
rests with the German president.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-13-8>
<H1>
Inflation rate 1.4 percent
</H1>
The Federal Department of Statistics announced that the April inflation
rate was 1.4 percent in comparison with the same month in 1996. Prices
remained constant compared to March. Price increases in the West were
highest for housing rent and in eastern Germany for education,
entertainment and spare time, and health products.

