<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-1>
<H1>
Low temperatures in the South-West, wintry conditions in the North
</H1>
The low temperatures from last night in the South-West
broke the record for this winter. The temperature in Sonnenbuehl
in the Svebian Alp was -22 C and is the lowest that has been measured
in Germany during this winter. In the North icy and snowy roads caused
many obstructions in the morning rush-hour traffic. The police registered
many minor accidents.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-2>
<H1>
20 people dead after a cable railway accident in Italy
</H1>
20 people died in a cable railway accident in the North-Italian
ski resort Cavalese. At least 6 german tourists were among them. On
Tuesday afternoon an american military plain cut the cable of the
cable railway with one of its wings. After that the car dropped off
sharply. The military plain that belongs to the SFOR peacekeeping forces
for Bosnia landed shortly after the incident almost undamaged in Aviano,
at the military base of the US Air Force. The Pilot said that they only
registered a strong vibration of the plain and that they did not notice
the crash of the cable car. According to the report of an eye-witness,
the plain flew far too low. There were 4 crew members on board.
In 1976 the cable railway in Cavalese had already been the venue for
the so far worst cable car crash in Europe, where 42 people died.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-3>
<H1>
Bugging operation: no approval of the Bundesrat so far
</H1>
Three days before the decisive meeting of the Bundesrat for
the bugging operation "Grosser Lauschangriff" it is still hard to
make out whether there will 2/3 majority of the votes for the change
of the constitution. Today, the CDU and SPD senate could not come to
an agreement yet. In all probability, the vote of the smallest federal
state will determine whether the necessary 2/3 majority can be achieved
or not. The SPD mayor of Bremen Scherf will only consent to the bill if
the afterwards the mediation committee will consider to make further
changes at a later stage. The CDU from Bremen has so far refused to do
this. In the meantime it looks like the CDU coalition in Bonn might be
willing to accept such a procedure. According the in well-informed
quarters, the wish of the SPD for changes in the joint committee
procedure will be considered if the Bundesrat agrees to the change of
the constitution. Especially the bugging prohibition of lawyers,
journalists and  medical doctors will be looked at. Many federal states
governed by the SPD  or red-green coalition have already declared their
"NO" or their abstention in the matter.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-4>
<H1>
Probably more protests of the unemployed as expected
</H1>
There will probably be more protests of the unemployed as expected
so far. According to the coordination office of the trade union unemployed
groups, it is very likely that there will be protests in up to 200 cities.
Apparently for most of the cities, the occupation of the employment office
and several proclamations have been scheduled. Buendnis90/Die Gruenen and
the IG Metall announced that they are going to support the demonstrators.
The activities will take place according to a french example. The motive
for the demonstrations is the announcement of the unemployment statistics
for January.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-5>
<H1>
Law for the protection of nonsmokers: positions reinforced
</H1>
Shortly before the final discussions of the law for the protection
of nonsmokers in the Bundestag, opponents and supporters have reinforced
their positions. The German Cancer Society called on the delegates to
agree with the submitted bill and point the way to the future in the battle
against cancer with it. On the other hand, representatives of some leading
trade associations have once again turned the initiative down. The bill
will support an effective protection of the nonsmokers in public rooms and
buildings, as well as at work. The parliament will be taking a vote on the
bill on Thursday, without the obligation to vote according to group policy.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-6>
<H1>
Federal Government: parliaments initiative for employment
</H1>
The Federal Government wants to give a fresh impetus to more
employment through a parliament initiative without having any new
employment- and economic situation plan. The coalition representatives
have accepted a bill, that will be discussed on Thursday in the Bundestag.
The essential point is the short-term employment of further 100,000
unemployed people on the doll in the communities. People who refuse the
work offer, should either get either less or no income support any more.
In the medium term, low wages for simple jobs will be introduced,
i.e. jobs in supermarkets, at petrol stations and in private households.

<P>
The minister of finances Waigel and FDP-head Gerhardt tried to lower the
expectations of the governmental plans and enforced that there will not
exist an employment plan financed by money from the household. According
to Waigel, the tax reform and moderate wage statements are for more
important.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-7>
<H1>
Poisoned baby food found
</H1>
A special commission of the central criminal investigation
department is investigating the latest blackmail case of the food
manufacturer Nestle. First the time being, the police and the public
prosecutor's office refuse to give any further details. A few glasses
with poisoned baby food had been found in a chemist's shop in
Pleidelsheim. Affected by the poison is only the trade mark
"Alete Baby Birne". According to unconfirmed information's of the German
Press Agency, the food was poisoned with the highly toxic plant-protective
product E605. Nestle declared that as a precaution in the whole region
all the glasses of that brand were replaced by new ones. The company asks
all consumers who bought this product between the 19th and 27th of January,
to take it back to the chemist's. The poisoned product stings in one's nose
and the lid does not click while opening the glass.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-8>
<H1>
High sentences in the Cigarettes-Mafia trial
</H1>
In the trial against five Vietnamese of the so-called
"Cigarettes-Mafia" the district court from Leipzig imposed high sentences
on the accused. The two principal offenders were sentenced to life
imprisonment, respectively to ten years' imprisonment because of murder
and attempted murder. The other three defendants have been sentenced to
4 to 8.5 years' imprisonment. The accused had shot one countryman and had
seriously injured three others.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-9>
<H1>
Soccer postponed due to nuclear transport
</H1>
Due to the imminent transportation of the refined fuel
elements from german nuclear power stations, ten Bundesliga games have
to be postponed in March and April. This statement was given today by
the German Soccer Association. Because the police has to escort the
Castor-transports, there will not be enough policemen on duty for the
Bundesliga games.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-10>
<H1>
Further Hermes-sureties for exporters to South-East Asia
</H1>
The german federal government wants to grant further
Hermes-sureties to South-East Asia in spite of the financial and
economical crises in the region. With these sureties the government
hedges the export transactions of german companies. The minister for
economic affairs Rexrodt underlined the good paying habits of south-east
asian debtors regarding to deals with Hermes-sureties. At the moment the
highest risk for the five countries concerned is 17 billion DM spread
over several years.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-03-11>
<H1>
Balsam trial: defendant in Switzerland
</H1>
Almost two years after the start of the marathon trial about
the billions bankruptcy of the manufacturer for gym floors Balsam one
of the defendant manage to flee to Switzerland. The former authorised
signatory of the finance company got his lawyer to read out a declaration of
four pages in front of the district court in Bielefeld. In there he justifies
his flight with the fact that he cannot expect a fair procedure any more.
Being a citizen of Switzerland he does not have to fear to be handed over.
The district court issue a warrant for the other two defendants arrest
according to danger of absconding.
In the trial about the once worldwide known manufacturer for gym floors
Balsam the public prosecutor's office accuses the defendants to have
cheated 45 banks out of a minimum of 1.3 billion DM through a joint
swindle.

