<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-1>
<H1>
Stoiber calls on Schroeder to stop dual citizenship
</H1>
The Bavarian State Premier Edmund Stoiber called on Federal Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder to stop the plans by the red-green coalition to
introduce dual citizenship. At the closed-door meeting of the CSU,
Stoiber said that dual citizenship could create a precarious security
situation.  He explained that 9000 members of the Kurdish Workers'
Party PKK, who are willing to use violence, currently live in Germany.
Half of these are eligible to receive a German passport under the
proposed plans. Stoiber announced that the CSU will continue its
planned petition initiative and place the issue at the center of its
European election campaign.  Stoiber said that Bavaria would not
disrupt the solidarity pact; with this he somewhat softened the attack
made by Bavarian Chancery Chief Erwin Huber who had placed financial
support for the eastern states in question.  "Huber was misunderstood
a little," said Stoiber. Bavaria would not think of punishing the
people in the new states because of election results in any other
state, Stoiber continued. Referring to the cooperation between SPD and
PDS, Huber had threatened to cancel financial support for the eastern
states. In addition, he did not rule out the possibility of Bavaria
withdrawing from federal and state joint panels.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-2>
<H1>
Petition initiative leads to controversy within CDU
</H1>
The plans of the CDU/CSU to gather signatures on petitions against
dual citizenship has caused a dispute within the ranks of the party.
Horst Eylmann, a legal expert from the CDU, said, "The Union (CDU/CSU)
couldn't have come up with anything dumber." He accused CDU party
leader Wolfgang Schaeuble of allowing himself to be swindled by the
future CSU leader Edmund Stoiber. Eylmann, the future Chairman of the
Legal Committee, said that the CDU's plan to challenge the SPD's
citizenship bill in court would have no chance. He said, that dual
citizenship has already been indisputably possible for the children
from mixed-nationality marriages.  That shows that it is not
inconsistent with the Basic Law (Grundgesetz the German constitution).
The Central Committee of German Catholics declared that a petition
initiative was unsuitable for considering an issue this complex. The
Protestant Church also came out against the CDU/CSU's plan.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-3>
<H1>
Greens push for immigration campaign
</H1>
In response to the CDU/CSU's plans to collect signatures on petitions
against dual citizenship, the Greens want to make a counter-gesture by
beginning an immigration campaign. After a closed-door meeting of the
federal steering committee, Greens spokeswoman Antje Radcke appealed
to churches, trade unions and youth to create alliances to better
integrate foreigners living in Germany. Dual citizenship would build a
bridge for those people who are interested in becoming citizens
without being forced to give up their identity.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-4>
<H1>
ECB satisfied with euro's launch
</H1>
The European Central Bank in Frankfurt am Main expressed its
satisfaction with the launching of the euro as the single currency for
290 million people in 11 countries of the European Union. The
president of the ECB, Wim Duisenberg, declared after the first meeting
subsequent to the introduction of the euro that there were no
incidents that would have jeopardized the functioning of the system.
Duisenberg admitted there were certain problems at the euro
money-market because several large banks could not handle the rush on
the first day of trading. He likened these problems childhood
diseases. He said the system had functioned well in general. There
were 1000 billion euro traded in the first few days, which translates
into about 2 trillion DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-5>
<H1>
Federal Government wants pilot program for state distribution of heroin soon
</H1>
The Federal Government wants to implement a pilot program for state
distribution of heroin to addicts as soon as possible. During a visit to
Frankfurt, Federal Health Minister Andrea Fischer left the starting date
for the controversial project open. First of all, the procedures would
have to be finalized in discussions with scientists as well as with
representatives of interested states and communities. Only after that
would the decision be made on which cities to accept into the program.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-07-6>
<H1>
Tom Tykwer receives "Ernst Lubitsch Prize" for 1999
</H1>
Director Tom Tykwer was awarded the 1999 Ernst Lubitsch Prize for the
filmscript and directing the film "Lola rennt" ("Lola runs"). The
prize is awarded annually for the best comedic achievement in German
film. Tykwer's movie, well received by critics and audiences alike,
was chosen this year because of his innovative ideas. The prize, which
was suggested in 1957 by Billy Wilder, is endowed by the Berlin Club
of Film Journalists. Previous recipients include Moritz Bleibtreu,
Manfred Krug, Helmut Dietl and Soenke Wortmann.

