<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-1>
<H1>
Meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers
</H1>
The Foreign Ministers of the European Union met this weekend in northern
Finland. Some of the topics discussed during the informal meeting included
the situation in the Baltic, expansion of the EU into the east and the
chances of an independent European security and defense policy. There
were no concrete agreements. The Foreign Ministers also invited the Balkan
representative in the EU, Bodo Hombach, to the discussions about the future
of Yugoslavia, the rebuilding of Kosovo and the possibilities of a stability
package. The foreign ministers are concerned that it is taking so long to
rebuild the public administration system in Kosovo. They also want to
discuss whether Turkey can join the EU and under what conditions.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-2>
<H1>
Discussion over languages in the EU
</H1>
By insisting on using more German translations even during informal EU
conferences, the German government has triggered a wave of similar
requests by other member countries of the EU. The Spanish and Italians
will insist on having similar rights if the use of German is introduced
during smaller conferences as well. The debate was therefore one of the
topics during today's meeting of foreign ministers of the European Union,
which took place in Finland, and the topics that had been planned were
pushed somewhat to the background. While all EU languages are spoken
and translated during official conferences in Brussels and Luxembourg, the
informal meetings are supposed to be more intimate.

<P>
The Finnish government therefore only translates into English, French and
Finnish, which is a practice that the German government protested against.
It is still unclear how the official discussions suffered as a result of this
debate. In order to not lose any time, the foreign ministers decided to
reach an agreement over the use of languages on September 13.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-3>
<H1>
SPD personnel discussions continue
</H1>
The personnel merry-go-round in the SPD continues to turn. The future
party leadership tasks are supposed to be assigned during the conference
tomorrow at SPD headquarters. Until then, rumors are flying. The head of
the party himself, Chancellor Schroeder, did not want to name any names
beforehand. According to information from the newspaper "Die Welt", the
Federal Coordinator of Aviation and Space Travel, Mosdorf, will be named
the successor for Minister of Transportation Franz Muentefering. The 47-
year-old Mosdorf has previously held the position of parliamentary
undersecretary in the Federal Ministry of Economics and concentrated
mainly on technological issues. The politician is said to have good
contacts to the automobile industry. It is practically considered a done
deal that Muentefering will be the head organizer of the SPD
headquarters, based on the request of Schroeder, either as Federal
Managing Director or General Secretary. He will also use this position to
organize the next federal elections in 2002. Schroeder will announce his
plans tomorrow afternoon at SPD headquarters so that the SPD
executive board can discuss it on Monday. In the ARD program "Bericht
aus Berlin", Schroeder described his intentions by saying "I think it will
depend on distributing the responsibility among a number of people in
such a way that the individuals will then also be able to represent one
another. I intend to make a structural suggestion - mind you a structural
suggestion - at headquarters on Sunday that should bring with it greater
efficiency and that, I think, will be accepted by the party." The future of
still-Federal Managing Director Ottmar Schreiner is still unclear. He may
possibly announce his resignation tomorrow. When asked who would
represent the SPD tomorrow on television during the analyses of the
parliamentary elections, either Schreiner or Muentefering, the Chancellor
stated: "Let that be a surprise."

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-4>
<H1>
Federal Chancellor Schroeder visits Poland
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Schroeder is visiting Poland on the anniversary of the
beginning of the Second World War. During a meeting last night with the
Polish leader Schroeder said that Germany will do everything to help Poland
become a member of the European Union. The borders of a unified Europe
should not be allowed to stop at the Oder river.

<P>
"Germany and Poland in the 21st Century", that was the theme of Chancellor
Schroeder's visit with Polish youth, a discussion between Schroeder and the
Polish Minister Presidents with students in the Warsaw University library,
which dealt with future German-Polish relations but also did not ignore the
past. The Polish Premier thanked the Chancellor for his visit on the 60th
anniversary of the German invasion of Poland. Schroeder reflected that the
past must be used as a basis for a better future together. The highlight of
the
evening was a concert in the Warsaw National Philharmonic. The Youth
Orchestra performed under the direction of Kurt Masur.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-5>
<H1>
Minister of Justice Sauter dismissed due to LWS scandal
</H1>
This afternoon, the Bavarian Minister President's office announced the
dismissal of Minister of Justice Sauter. Minister President Stoiber
explained that the relationship of trust with the minister of justice
had been destroyed. Sauter had previously said in an interview that he
will remain the minister of justice if the minister president demands
his resignation. The state parliament must now approve Sauter's
dismissal. Sauter wishes to perform his duties of office until the
parliament reaches its decision. The Minister President's office has
since declared that the duties of office had been taken over by Minister
of the Interior Beckstein. Sauter is under attack for his previous role as
the chairman of the LWS . He is accused of contributing to losses
equaling 360 billion marks in risky real estate deals.

<P>
SPD opposition leader Renate Schmid will not be satisfied with Sauter's
dismissal alone. "Mr. Stoiber is apparently using the typical Stoiber
approach of "tossing the jettison" in Sauter's case. I am not saying that
Mr. Sauter cannot be faulted with this scandal but rather that he is only
one of those to be blamed and that others have the main responsibility
and must face up to this responsibility once and for all," she said.

<P>
The Bavarian Greens spoke of an insufficient attempt to get free of the
situation and would like to investigate Stoiber's role in the LWS real
estate bankruptcy as well. The experienced attorney Alfred Sauer had
recently become state secretary under Franz-Josef Strauss and has been
a member of the Bavarian parliament since 1988. According to Stoiber,
heaven only knows who will be the next minister of justice.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-6>
<H1>
State bishop of Hanover takes office
</H1>
Pastor Margit Kaesmaann took over the position of State Bishop of
Hanover with a solemn act. She is the second woman in the history of
the Federal Republic to take over one of the highest positions in the
church. Over a thousand guests attended the ceremony, including
Chancellor Schroeder.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-7>
<H1>
Germany wins EM qualifying match against Finland
</H1>
The German national soccer team won the qualifying match in the European
Cup against Finland 2:1. The GSA-11 took over the lead to 2:0 thanks to
Oliver Bierhoff's two goals in the 2nd and 17th minutes. The counter
goal for the Finn's was made by Sali in the 63rd minute. The German team
leads the Turkish team, with the same number of points, in the ranking.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-04-8>
<H1>
Sven Ottke defends world champion title against Thomas Tate
</H1>
Sven Ottke has retained his IBF world title in the super middle weight
category against the American Thomas Tate. The fight was ended in the
eleventh round due to a cut above Ottke's eye and points were tallied.
The point tally was permissible as Ottke's injury was attributable to an
illegal blow to the head by Tate in the ninth round. Ottke boxed for two
more rounds with the bleeding wound. This was the 16th victory for Ottke
in his 16th professional fight.

