<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-1>
<H1>
Nobel prize for literature goes to Guenther Grass
</H1>
Guenter Grass is the seventh German to be awarded the Nobel prize for
literatire. The decision was announced at noon today, and Grass has
since
been flooded with congratulations from the political and cultural
sectors.
He received the news in Luebeck and was overjoyed. =CF'm glad; I'm glad
for
my sake, for the sake of German literature, which is being honored
once
more after the award to Heinrich Boell, and I'm glad for the sake of
this city",
he said. The Swedish academy in Stockholm, in the rationale of the
decision, cites Grass at having painted the forgotten face of history
in
lively black stories. They said his novel "Die Blechtrommel"(The Tin
Drum) counts among the immortal literary works of the 20th century.
In the jury's opinion, in 1959 this book brought a new beginning after
decades of destruction of speech and morals.

<P>
Grass was born in Danzig in 1927. As a soldier going on 18, he lived
through the last weeks of the war. He then worked as a miner and
later on studied sculpture. In the mid-50's he began his literary
career.
In 1958, with the publication of the novel "Die Blechtrommel", he
reached the apex of his success. The story about Oskar Matzerath
carried Grass to international fame. He erceived many awards, among
them the Fontane and Theodor-Heuss prizes, and now the Nobel prize.
This wave of literary success he used in campaigning for the social
democratic party (SPD) in the 60's. Together with Willy Brandt, he
battled for a social democratic government.

<P>
Writers and politicians in Germany and abroad have come
out praising the Stockholm jury's decision in favor of Guenther Grass
and congratulated the author. Chancellor Schroeder said that this
award went to one of the gretaest writers of this century.
Representatives
of all parties in the Bundestag applauded the news. In the opinion of
fellow authors said the Nobel prize for Grass was a glorious event
for German literature.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-2>
<H1>
Alternative Nobel prize goes do SPD member of Bundestag
</H1>
Stockholm.SPD Bundestag member and solar energy expert Herrmann Scheer
was awarded one of the four alternative Nobel prizes. The Stockholm
committee
thereby honors Scheer's efforts in favor of solar energy facing
massive
political and institutional resistance. Scheer said the prize was an
encouragement to continue his struggle.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-3>
<H1>
German embassy in Prague - 10 years after
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder thanked the Czech people for their help
in
1989, when Czech authorities allowed some 4,000 fugitives from the GDR
to cross into the federal republic. Schroeder said Germany had
received
solidarity at that time and would now repay solidarity. The Czech
desire
for joining the EU would receive avtive German support. Czech
president
Havel and premier Seemann chimed in praising the excellent relations
between Germany and the Czech Republic. Several former fugitives took
part in the night's gala reception. On September 30, 1989, the foreign
minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher had told the fugitives from the
balcony
of the German embassy in Prague that they would be tkane to the West.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-4>
<H1>
No special slander protection for the military
</H1>
There will be no special law protecting the military against slander.
A draft to
that effect submitted by CDU/CSU was voted down by SPD, Greens and PDS
in the Bundestag this evening. The draft aimed to make it easier to
punish the
issuance of phrases like "Soldiers are murderers". The government
party
representatives hold existing determinations of the penal code as
sufficient.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-5>
<H1>
Complaint filed against Oktoberfest guards
</H1>
Munich police is defending itself against an accusation of battery. A
young
couple filed a complaint against members of theOktoberfest detail,
where
they had been detained following a beer tent brawl. The 23 year old
man
and his 20 year old girl friend said they had been beaten and kicked
by
teh policemen. A police spokesman denied this in a sharp pronouncement
today. The denial is based on a video film taken by a surveillance
camera,
which has been handed over to the prosecution. Police concede that the
young woman was handcuffed to a railing in the internal court of the
Oktoberfest detail's precinct for half an hour because she had been
flailing
around, kicked and insulted policemen, and both detainment cells had
been occupied at the time. As there is no way of looking into the
internal
precinct court from outside, the matter of public exposure does not
arise.
The Munich police department now plans to file a complaint against
the couple.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-6>
<H1>
Reduction of no-flight time at night at Munich airport under fire
</H1>
The Munich airport authorities are running into sharp resistance with
their plan to ease the night-time flight ban. The League for the
Protection
of nature sees in this an attack on nocturnal tranquility in the
surrounding
areas. The league declared they would not accept the airport
authority's
new rules. The airport wants to make possible take-offs and landings
until midnight and as of 5 AM, in special situations. Up to now, the
limits were 11 PM and 6 AM. The easing sought by the airport is due
to increased traffic. Observance of the no-flight order has long been
a bone of contention between area dwellers and airport authorities.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-30-7>
<H1>
Grand Slam Cup
</H1>
Tommy Haas will face Sweden's Thomas Enquist in the Grand Slam
Cup semifinals next Saturday. Haas defeated first-ranking defending
champion Andre Agassi in three sets.

