<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-1>
<H1>
CDU federal party convention: Kohl's speech on principles
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl called on delegates at the CDU national
party convention to show unity.  He said that the CDU and the coalition
would have a chance to win the 1998 federal elections if they were
united,  but that they should not take victory for granted.  Kohl's
announcement to  run for election again was met with several minutes of
applause from the delegates.  The Chancellor declared his belief in a
coalition with the FDP  but warned the Liberals of hesitating in their
views of an alliance.
Again,  Kohl declared his support for the European Monetary Union but
said he understood that many Germans would prefer to keep the DM for
historical reasons.  But new developments in the world required new
answers, he said.
Kohl accused the SPD of not having a programme and of wanting to gain
power in Bonn with the help of The Greens and the silent consent of the
PDS. He harshly criticised the SPD's possible candidates for
Chancellor,  Gerhard Schroeder and Oskar Lafontaine, saying that
Schroeder was a text-book opportunist and that Lafontaine had first led
the Saarland to financial ruin and then attempted to redevelop it at
the expense of the Federal Republic.
In his speech,  Kohl did not mention the criticism from within his own
party.  The critics who had initiated the debate about strategy and
leadership prior to the convention held back. The chairman of the Junge
Union, the CDU's youth faction, Escher, declared his initiative for a
separation of the positions of the Chancellor and the party-chairman to
be over. Escher said that it was now time to concentrate on the
election campaign.
The CDU federal party convention continues until Wednesday. Employment,
education,  Europe,  and interior security are the most important
topics.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-2>
<H1>
Lafontaine rejects Kohl's criticism of the SPD
</H1>
SPD chair Oskar Lafontaine, strongly rejected Chancellor Kohl's
harsh criticism of the Social Democrats. This form of confrontation
with the political opponent revealed own weaknesses, Lafontaine said.
He stated that Kohl's speech showed the Chancellor's lack of sensitivity
for the increasing gaps in society. Lafontained said a person who
claimed that there were no benefactions left to be handed out but who
simultaneously  abolished the private wealth tax was socially blind.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-3>
<H1>
Green Party submits draft of 1998 election programme
</H1>
Buendnis 90/The Greens are the first party to submit a draft for
their 1998 federal election programme. They demand a stop to using
nuclear energy, the disintegration of NATO, and the abolition of
compulsory military service with a reduction of the army to less than
150,000 soldiers. They propose to ease the financial burden of low and
middle incomes by introducing a new system of taxes and contributions.
A drastic increase of gas prices is also part of their ecological tax
reform. The Greens suggest that by the year 2005, one liter of gas
should cost 4.30 DM. The election programme will be passed at a
national delegates conference in March 1998. Party spokesman Trittin
said that there was time for discussions until then. The leader of the
Greens' parliamentary group, Joschka Fischer, cautioned his party
against unrealistic demands in the light of possible negotiations
regarding a coalition. The SPD immediately rejected the ideas of its
possible government partner. SPD secretary-general Struck said that the
present programme could not be object of discussions about a coalition
with The Greens.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-4>
<H1>
Waigel renews demand for lower German contributions to the EU
</H1>
At a meeting with his EU colleagues, Federal Finance
Minister Theo Waigel repeated his demand for a decrease of the German
contributions to the European Union. He called an EU study, according
to which the system of contributions is fair, disappointing and
inacceptable. Apparently, the federal government expects its EU
contributions to be lowered from currently approx. 22 billion DM to 15
billion DM. Only Austria, Sweden, and The Netherlands supported
Waigel's demand. According to the president of the EU commission,
Santer, Germany benefits more from the European Union than Bonn had
calculated.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-5>
<H1>
Koschnick criticises mistreatment of Bosnia refugees
</H1>
The former EU administrator in Mostar, Hans Koschnick, has
accused German authorities of mistreating Bosnian refugees. In the
Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung daily, the former mayor of Bremen said
that he had received more than 200 pleas for help from Lower Saxony
alone. Citing an example, he said that contrary to the graduated plan
of the state ministers of the interior, some labour offices had denied
the completion of their education to young Bosnians.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-13-6>
<H1>
Federal government: privatisation of Lufthansa a big success
</H1>
The federal government considers the privatisation of
Lufthansa a big success. The Minister of Transportation, Wissmann,
declared in Frankfurt that more than 400,000 private investors had
submitted purchasing orders for the federally-owned Lufthansa shares.
Today, the shares were quoted at 33.30 DM, which is only slighty above
the initial rate. The sale of these shares provides 4.7 billion DM cash
for the federal government.

