<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-1>
<H1>
Barrels containing highly poisonous liquid leak after accident
</H1>
Several barrels containing a highly poisonous liquid sprang
a leak due to an accident involving a dangerous-goods transporter last
night on the A2 motorway between Oberhausen and Hanover. The substance
is poisonous and corrosive, according to a preliminary statement, but
a spokesman for the motorway police has said that it represents no
danger for the environment. The driver was killed in the incident and
the overturned truck blocked both lanes of the motorway

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-2>
<H1>
Herzog to meet ethnic minority representatives in Hungary today
</H1>
President Herzog has expressed his concern that too much
importance is given to the considerations of the cost of integration
in public debate about the European Union . He said at a meeting with
President Horn of Hungary that the key conception of Europe as a
community for freedom and peace is often forgotten in such discussion.
This cannot be tolerated, he continued; the war in former Yugoslavia
has shown what dangers Europe is confronted with daily from the
inside.

<P>
Before making his statement, Herzog had met with 13 of the minority
groups living in Hungary and had praised the policies of the Hungarian
government regarding these ethnic minorities, calling them exemplary.
The adoption of these policies had greatly improved the country's
chances of quickly being accepted as a member of NATO and the European
Union, Herzog said, after talks with ethnic Germans living in Hungary
and other national minorities in Budapest. The biggest obstacles in
this regard had been removed by the adoption of the National
Minorities Law and the signing of treaties with Romania and Slovakia,
Herzog continued, and he placed emphasis on the fact that he had
gained the impression through these meetings that all of those
concerned were determined to contribute to the process of
reconciliation. Kerner, the chairman of the National Autonomous
Administration of German Hungarians (which number over 200,000), gave
the assurance that they considered themselves to be loyal citizens of
Hungary. There is some degree of autonomous administration in 160
municipalities with populations of ethnic Germans.

<P>
Yesterday, in a speech in the Hungarian Parliament in Budapest,
President Herzog stressed the fact that Hungary would be one of the
first countries in Eastern Europe to gain entry to NATO and the
European Union and said that Germany supports its membership of the
two organisations unconditionally.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-3>
<H1>
SFOR troops to return from Bosnia today
</H1>
The first German troops from the SFOR returned from their
two-month tour of duty in Bosnia-Herzegovina today. Around 100
soldiers arrived at the Landsberg am Lech air base in Bavaria. 3,000
soldiers from the Bundeswehr make up around a tenth of all the troops
stationed in Bosnia, which are subject to a regular programme of
replacement.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-4>
<H1>
Federal government to stick with transport of nuclear waste to Gorleben
</H1>
Despite all pleas against the idea, the
Federal Government will not be shaken from its intention to transport
six CASTOR containers of nuclear waste to the intermediate storage
facility in Gorleben by rail. A meeting held in Luechow between the
Environment Minister, Merkel, and representatives from citizens'
action groups failed to bring any compromise. Merkel said that she
could not cancel the imminent transportation of atomic waste to the
intermediate storage facility in Gorleben, but she said that she does
take the citizens' worries seriously. Local councils had called on
Federal Government in Bonn and State Government in Hanover to abandon
the transportation.

<P>
After the meeting, Merkel was pelted with eggs, fruit and baking
powder by a group of demonstrators. Around 400 people had gathered to
demonstrate (in front of the town hall in Luechow) during the meeting
and there were some small incidents involving the demonstrators and
police. A spokesperson for those opposing atomic power said that
Merkel had come too late, as talks just before a transportation of
nuclear waste were rarely of any use. According to Glogowski, the
Prime Minister of Lower Saxony (SPD), the protest movement against
Gorleben is increasingly being infiltrated by Autonomen
(left-wing/anarchist autonomous groups), but he said that he did not
think that the whole protest movement should be considered violent.

<P>
The cost of policing the planned transportation of nuclear waste will
be higher than had been expected. According to Glogowski, the DM 66
million which was provided for up till now is not enough as the
increasing resistance to the transportations has pushed up the cost.
Glogowski maintained that the Lower Saxony Police Force was prepared
for the coming transportation and could ensure its safety; around
30,000 police officers will be used to ensure the safe transport of
nuclear waste to Gorleben. It has been reported that the six CASTOR
containers will be connected to a train in Wahlheim on Friday ready
for the transportation; according to unconfirmed reports, the
transportation will begin at the weekend.

<P>
During a news programme of the ARD television channel yesterday,
Environment Minister Merkel emphasised the fact that it was necessary
to store atomic waste in Germany permanently. It was not acceptable to
have all such waste processed and deposited outside of the country
said Merkel (CDU). In reaction to the recent attacks on railway lines,
she called on the opponents of nuclear power to refrain from turning
to violence.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-5>
<H1>
Energy industry sees no alternative to nuclear waste transportation
</H1>
According to representatives of the energy industry, there is no
alternative to the contentious transportation of nuclear waste.  Varnung
(sp?), the president of the board of directors of the Rhine-Westphalian
Energy Company, said that burnt out nuclear elements could only be stored
at the nuclear power plants for a limited period, and thus the
transportation of atomic waste to the intermediate storage facility in
Gorleben cannot be avoided, nor is it possible to consider delaying the
present transportation as this has already been put off for two years.
Varnung said that the energy company has not been asked to delay the
transportation by any political party.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-6>
<H1>
Change in law may be needed due to breakthrough in cloning of mammals
</H1>
The Federal Government has been considering whether the recent
breakthrough in the cloning of mammals will make it necessary to bring
about a change the law. Schmidt-Jortzig, the federal Minister for
Justice, pointed out that the Protection of Embryos Law of 1990
already forbids the cloning of humans, but if it should prove
necessary, the law would be changed to fit the new situation.
Seehofer, the Federal Minister for Health announced that he would be
striving to bring about a European-wide ban on human cloning. The
president of the Organisation of German Farmers, Heeremann, called on
politicians, scientists and others to formulate guidelines for the use
of genetic technology in the raising of animals. British scientists
announced at the weekend that they had succeeded in cloning a mammal
(a sheep called "Dolly") for the first time.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-7>
<H1>
Basic points of tax reform are not up for debate
</H1>
The partners in the ruling coalition have said that
they do not intend to alter the basic points of the tax reform any
further. Solms, the leader of the FDP parliamentary party, said today
in Bonn that the discussion with the SPD on the subject could not lead
to any and every change that the SPD desired; thus individual details
such as the tax reductions for business cannot be dealt with in
isolation. Doss, a member of the Bundestag for the CDU, called on the
SPD to abandon its "ideological immobility" and to make the way free
for reductions in taxation; at the same time, he rejected the SPD's
criticism of the plans to tax supplements for night and weekend work.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-8>
<H1>
Schaeuble makes offer of talks to SPD on pension reform
</H1>
Schaeuble, the leader of the parliamentary party of the CDU in
the Bundestag, has made an offer of talks to SPD on the pension
reform. In an interview with the newspaper "Die Woche" Schaeuble said
that he also wanted talks with the SPD, the biggest opposition party,
about the future of social security. In connection with this,
Schaeuble referred to a comment from Chancellor Kohl that a consensus
should be achieved on the difficult discussions about pensions; the
pension reform of 1990 was achieved in collaboration with the SPD.
According to Schaeuble, the most important point as far as the CDU is
concerned is to reach a common position of its own on the pension
reform; this should happen by Easter. Schaeuble said that he thought
that there is a good chance that unity can be achieved in the present
talks about the tax reform, as, after all, neither side could afford
to think purely in terms of party tactics; such an action would not be
received well by the voting public.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-9>
<H1>
Kohl: excessive length of university degrees is bad for Germany
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl has criticised the excessive length of
university degrees as being bad for Germany. He said at a celebration
for the 150th anniversary of the Ministry for Education in Bavaria
that more time spent in education and receiving pensions and a shorter
time spent actually employed can not add up. Kohl warned that the arts
should not be forgotten in all the talk of reforming the tax and
pension systems; Germany must continue to develop as a centre for
culture and knowledge. Stoiber, the Prime Minister of Bavaria called
for legal obstacles to be dismantled so that a nation-wide competition
between universities could be achieved.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-10>
<H1>
President of DGB: agreement necessary on cut in working hours
</H1>
Schulte, The President of the DGB (German federation of
trade unions) has called for an agreement on a cut in working hours;
he said in a newspaper interview that he still believes that the
number of unemployed could be cut by half by the year 2000. A
considerable change in the trend of the employment market is a
precondition for this, according to Schulte, and the DGB will be
fighting for this at an employment summit meeting with employers and
politicians in April. In the short term, 860,000 new jobs could be
created through a reduction in overtime and through the raising of the
rate at which national insurance payments must be made for part-time
work by 5.2 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-11>
<H1>
Zoeller: agreement is possible on third stage of health insurance reform
</H1>
Zoeller, a member of the Bundestag for the CSU, believes that an
agreement can be reached next Tuesday on the third stage of the health
insurance reform, thanks to the fact that the FDP has given up some of
its points of disagreement. Solms, the leader of the parliamentary
party of the FDP, had said that his party believed that the present
situation could remain, whereby the employer and employee both pay
half of the cost, but the contributions must be stabilised at the
lowest level. Zoeller said this morning on the radio station
"Deutschlandfunk" that the suggestion was only one possibility for the
health insurance companies and their committees, where employees are
represented, to consider. There is already an equalisation of the
burden, as a patient must pay a supplement of up to 30 per cent.
Zoeller stressed that the most important point of the reforms was to
bring savings, which could be up to DM 70 billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-12>
<H1>
German Rail achieves record turnover and profits last year
</H1>
German Rail achieved a record turnover and record profits last
year. Heinz Duerr, up till now the head of the Rail company announced
that the profit before tax had increased to DM 693 million, although
this includes the DM 200 million profit gained from the sale of shares
in the communication business DBCom (sp?). For the first time, the
company's turnover has exceeded DM 30 billion; passenger travel has
increased but goods transport has decreased, and at the same time, the
company has reduced its workforce by 24,000, but this did not involve
compulsory redundancies, Duerr stressed. Johannes Ludewig, a secretary
of state in the Finance Ministry, was chosen as Duerr's successor by
the board of German Rail; he will take up the position in July.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-13>
<H1>
Lufthansa pilots vote to strike
</H1>
A majority of the pilots working for Lufthansa have voted
in favour of strike action. According to their trade union, the DAG,
around 90 per cent of pilots voted for industrial action. Separate
strike ballots for cabin and ground staff did not reach the necessary
majority. The union commission on collective wages intends to discuss
the way forward on Friday. The pilots union is demanding that the
collective wage agreements should not last so long and is also
demanding a pay increase for the workers, which number around 58,000.
The OeTV union has already arranged a new collective wage agreement
with Lufthansa

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-14>
<H1>
Health warning on cigarette packets to remain
</H1>
Health warnings against the dangers of smoking are to
remain on cigarette packets; this decision of the Federal
Constitutional Court quashed a petition by five cigarette
manufacturers. The obligation to print such a warning is compatible
with the German constitution according to the judges, as one of the
legitimate tasks of the state is to make known dangers to the health
of citizens. In its ruling, the court drew attention to the fact that
more people die from smoking than from automobile accidents, suicide,
murder, alcohol, illegal drugs and AIDS put together.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-15>
<H1>
Connection found between murder of policeman and attack on bookseller
</H1>
A direct connection exists between the shooting of a
policeman in Schleswig-Holstein and an attack on a book shop owner
from Berlin. The accused, who belongs to the extreme-right-wing scene
has admitted to shooting at the bookseller, who works in the PDS
building in the Marzahn district. As a motive for the attack, the
24-year old said that he hated the PDS, of which the bookseller was a
member. The  legal authorities have issued a further arrest warrant.

<P>
The man had been arrested after he had shot one police officer and
severely wounded another with a shotgun at a vehicle spot-check on the
motorway from Hamburg to Berlin. Forensic investigations proved that
the same weapon had been used in both cases.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-16>
<H1>
"Motorway sniper" gets 15 year prison sentence
</H1>
The Luebeck regional court has sentenced a man who had shot
at cars eight times in total, injuring six drivers, to 15 years in
prison. The sentence followed the application of the public
prosecutor's office which maintained that the 41-year old had
callously accepted the possible death of his victims. He had become
known as the "Motorway sniper."

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-17>
<H1>
Number of accidents at work fallen sharply in trade and industry
</H1>
Sankt Augustin. The number of accidents at work in trade and industry
has fallen sharply in the last year. According to figures provided by
the Organisation of Trade Associations, 1.47 million accidents were
reported in and on the way to the workplace in 1996; this represents a
reduction of 9.4 per cent over 1995. The number of deaths dropped by
eight per cent to 1,840.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-26-18>
<H1>
Conflict over exhibition on Wehrmacht crime continues
</H1>
The conflict over the exhibition on Wehrmacht crime has
continued for the two days since its opening. Gauweiler, the leader of
the CSU in Munich, reinforced his accusations against Reemtsma, the
founder of the Institute in Hamburg which had conceived of the
exhibition. Reemtsma has, according to Gauweiler, made common cause
with the left-wing/anarchist squatter scene around the Hafenstrasse in
Hamburg and he should thus consider his own understanding of
totalitarianism. Hoderlein, the general secretary of the SPD in
Bavaria, said that Gauweiler himself should be investigated by the
federal agency for internal security. Also concerning Gauweiler's
remarks, Stoiber said that he would have an awful lot to do if he had
to comment on everything that a member of his party said.

