<DOC de-news-1999-01-05-1>
<H1>
Economic Research Institute predicts less growth in 1999
</H1>
The German Institute for Economic Research is predicting only 1.4
percent growth for 1999. The institute's president Hoffmann indicated that the
reason for the clear downward correction was bad export prospects. It was
therefore necessary, he said, to continue to expect to have more than 4
million people unemployed. The Federal Government and other experts disputed
this pessimistic prognosis. A spokesperson of the Finance Ministry said that
the institute's numbers were not consistent with the government's assumptions.
Bonn currently expects 2 percent growth, as do various other analysts.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-05-2>
<H1>
Doering confirmed as head of FDP in Baden-Wuertemberg
</H1>
The head of Free Democrats in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Walter Doering, was re-elected for another 2-year term at the FDP's state
party conference. He received 91 percent of the delegates' votes. In his
speech, Doering designated unemployment reduction as the most important goal
of the CDU/FDP state coalition government. At the same time, he clearly
distanced himself from his coalition partners. Among other things, Doering
criticized the CDU's positions on drug and economic policies. He expressed
support for "junkie centers" ("Fixerstuben") and demanded more privatization
that favors the middle class.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-05-3>
<H1>
Increasing criticism of CDU's planned petition initiative
</H1>
The Christian Democratic Union is receiving increasingly harsh
criticism, even from its own ranks, of its plans to collect signatures on
petitions against dual citizenship. Politicians from the CDU added their
voices to those of the SPD, the Greens, and the FDP in accusing the CDU of
populism and irresponsibility. Horst Eylmann, a legal expert from the CDU,
said that it would incite nationalistic emotions. The CDU politician Friedmann
said that circulating the petition was dangerous, populistic and politically
irresponsible. He regretted that the CDU was allowing itself to be influenced
by the CSU. The chairman of the CDU's committees on social policy, Rainer
Eppelmann, said the initiative would only make sense if it was not limited to
merely collecting signatures but would rather bring about a broad and
objective debate. The Commissioner for Foreigners in Berlin, John, also from
the CDU, declared that one should not be guided by the lowest common
denominator. She feared that the initiative could be understood and used as a
general vote against foreigners. The Foreigners' Advisory Board as well as
other foreigners' organizations announced their opposition to the petition
initiative. The Catholic Church in Bavaria will not support the project,
either. On the other hand, the CDU Member of Parliament Juergen Ruettgers
defended his party's push for a public opinion poll of this kind. Ruettgers
said in a radio interview that dual citizenship was detrimental to
integration. The vast majority of the population, he said, was against dual
citizenship. Roland Koch, the CDU's party chairman in Hessen said in a
television interview that the danger existed that members of the Kurdish
Worker's Party PKK could also obtain German citizenship. The Republicans
(Republikaner) and the German People's Union (Deutsche Volksunion) also
support the CDU.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-05-4>
<H1>
Federal government plans informational campaign on citizenship
</H1>
The Federal Government wants to gain support for the introduction of
dual citizenship with an informational campaign. The Government's Commissioner
on Foreigners Marieluise Beck said this was a reaction to the petition against
reform of the citizenship law announced by the CDU/CSU. The Parliamentary
State Secretary in the Ministry of the Interior, Cornelie Sonntag-Wolgast,
SPD, defended the reform in a radio interview. She said the reform would make
a contribution toward domestic peace. In addition, the Government again
harshly criticized the CDU/CSU. Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said
the CDU/CSU was out of its mind if it maintained that the reform represented a
greater danger than the former terrorist group RAF. He continued that the CDU
and the CSU were using shabby arguments to carry on a debate on the backs of
people who were hardly in a position to defend themselves. Fischer appealed to
those members of both parties who were "susceptible to reason"
("vernunftanfaellig") to rebel against their party leadership.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-05-5>
<H1>
More drug-related deaths
</H1>
In 1998, there were considerably more drug-related deaths in Germany
than the previous year, according to estimates of the Federal Health Ministry.
By the end of November, there were 1412 drug victims, 7.9 percent more than
the same time period the year before. In Baden-Wuerttemberg, however, the
number of drug-related deaths decreased. The year's complete statistics are
expected in February or March.

