<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-1>
<H1>
Lafontaine gives reasons for his resignation
</H1>
For the first time, Oskar Lafontaine today explained the
reasons for his surprise resignation as Federal Finance Minister and
leader of the SPD. Three days after having left the political arena,
Lafontaine complained of a lack of team spirit, inconsiderateness, and
phony public discussion on the part of the federal government.  He
said that the government had not been playing like a team over the
last several months. He said he could not understand how certain
people could complain that his policies were bad for the economy,
despite tax reforms that saved the middle class five billion DM.
Lafontaine also said that he was proud of his policies aimed at
achieving greater social justice. He said that he had now opened up
the way for a new line-up to be put together. Lafontaine wished
Federal Chancellor Schroeder's team the best of luck. He explained his
long silence following his resignation by saying that he did not want
to unburden himself at the expense of others.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-2>
<H1>
Reaction to Lafontaine's reasons
</H1>
The federal government has, in the words of government spokesman
Heye, respectfully taken note of Lafontaine's statement. From Bonn,
Heye said Lafontaine's motives were now clearer. Federal Economic
Minister Mueller expressed understanding for Lafontaine's criticism of
government workings. In an interview, he said that there had indeed
been frustrations. Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer rejected
Lafontaine's criticism, saying that the cabinet meetings he had taken
part in had been nothing less than collegial. Executive spokesman for
the Greens, Radtke, on the other had, pointed out that many people had
felt that working together as a team was not made a priority within
the federal government. CSU Secretary-General, Merkel, considers
Lafontaine's statement to be a devastating indictment against
Schroeder and his cabinet. The CSU agreed that it constituted a
massive attack on the Chancellor. The Secretary-General of the FDP,
Westerwelle, spoke of a vote of non-confidence against Schroeder's
government, saying that when a federal finance minister could no
longer resist the urge to return to private life after only sixteen
weeks in office, then the in-fighting must have been absolutely
unbearable.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-3>
<H1>
"Jusos" demand resignation of Chancellery Minister
</H1>
The Young Socialists ("Jusos") are demanding, after Lafontaine's
resignation, that the Minister for the Chancellery, Bodo Hombach,
follow suit. In several interviews, Juso leader Nales blamed Hombach
for coordination problems within the government. The SPD caucus
leader, Peter Struck, rejected the criticism. From Bonn, Struck said
that all the forces of the party, the government, and the caucus had
to be united in order to secure political success.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-4>
<H1>
EU foreign ministers discuss financial reform, Kosovo
</H1>
The 15 foreign ministers of the European Union resumed their
discussions of financial reform today at the Rheinhardtshausen castle.
The primary topic of today's session is the "Agenda 2000" reform
package and compromise in revamping the agricultural market recently
reached, after a long dispute, by the various agriculture ministers.
The agricultural reforms would exceed the established maximum of 307
billion DM in expenses for the agricultural budget in the next
seven-year period, by 7 billion DM.

<P>
Yesterday the foreign ministers discussed the prospects for peace in
Kosovo, and decided that no extension of the deadline for an agreement
should be granted. With a new round of negotiations between Serbia and
Kosovo-Albanians set to begin tomorrow near Paris, the chances of an
agreement are poor. According to NATO Secretary-General Solana, the
Kosovo-Albanians were willing to sign the agreement tomorrow, but the
Serbs would likely refuse. Solana reaffirmed NATO's commitment to
initiate air strikes against Serb targets in that case. He said that
the West would not back off from its demands, and that there could be
no lasting peace without the presence of international ground troops.
The Serbs refuse to allow the stationing of international ground
forces to supervise a peace accord.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-5>
<H1>
Employers' Association President calls for new economic direction
</H1>
The President of the Employers' Association, Hundt, has renewed
his demands for a new direction in economic and taxation policies
following the resignation of Federal Finance Minister Lafontaine. In a
radio interview, Hundt called on Chancellor Schroeder to put a halt to
the current tax reform process and to rework the entire concept to
better suit the interests of the economy.

<P>
He also expressed satisfaction with the two rounds of talks held so
far in the Alliance for Work (Buendnis fuer Arbeit), although he added
that wage policies would have to be included in future discussions.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-6>
<H1>
Reports of concessions to nuclear power industry rejected
</H1>
The Federal Environment Ministry has denied a report in the "Welt am
Sonntag" newspaper about concessions on the part of the federal
government to the energy sector. According to the ministry, no such
agreements had been made; the government wanted to implement a new
direction in energy policies and was sticking to its intentions. The
"Welt am Sonntag" had reported that Schroeder had definitively
rejected demands by the Greens that three or four nuclear reactors be
shut down before the next federal election.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-7>
<H1>
DAG union announces further warning strikes
</H1>
The National Union of Employees (DAG) has announced further warning
strikes for the coming weeks, in the wage dispute in the insurance
industry. According to the union's federal executive, the following
cities will be affected, among others: Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Hamburg,
Hanover, Berlin, Saarbruecken, and Munich. The negotiator for the
union, Gerhard Renner, said in Hamburg that the coming fourth round of
talks this Friday would have to result in the overdue wage agreement.
The most recent offer of the table, an increase of 1.8 percent, was a
mockery, he said. The DAG and the HBV (union for the trade, banking,
and insurance industry) are demanding pay increases of 6.5 percent for
employees in the insurance industry.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-8>
<H1>
Dual citizenship dispute continues
</H1>
The CSU/CSU say they will appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court
in the dispute over dual citizenship, if they have to. Caucus leader
for the sister parties, Ruettgers, told "Focus" newsmagazine that the
reforms desired by the government would require changing the
constitution. The government plan would allow the children of
non-Germans living in Germany to acquire a so-called double-passport
for a limited period of time. They would then lose the German passport
if they failed to give up the foreign passport by their twenty-third
birthday. The Opposition says that the legal framework for such a
revocation must be stated clearly in the constitution.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-9>
<H1>
Greens demand changes of German Railway
</H1>
The Green Party is demanding, following the latest series
of rail accidents, that the German Railway company invest more in the
existing rail network and less in new projects. In a newspaper
interview, the Green transportation spokesman, Schmidt, charged that
it did not make sense to spend billions of Marks to move the railway
station in Stuttgart underground, for example, when the tracks next to
it were not functional.  Schmidt added that further savings could not
be realized at the expense of safety, service, and punctuality.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-10>
<H1>
Naming of Reichstag building divides historians
</H1>
It is not only politicians who cannot agree on what name the
Reichstag building in Berlin should bear after the Bundestag moves
into it. Historian Hans Momsen of Berlin, and his Bielefeld colleague,
Wehler, are energetically advocating retaining the designation of
"Reichstag" as the building's established and traditional name. A
professor  of history in Berlin, Winkler, on the other hand, feels
that the building should bear the name of the body resident in it,
saying: "It was the Reichstag, it is now the Bundestag".

<DOC de-news-1999-03-14-11>
<H1>
Steffi Graf loses in Indian Wells final
</H1>
Steffi Graf has lost the Indian Wells WTA tournament against the
17-year-old Serena Williams with a score of 3:6, 6:3, and 5:7. The
29-year-old thus just fell short of her 107th career tournament title.
Both players exhibited  exemplary tennis-playing in the third set. In
the end, the American's more high-pressure play carried the match.

