<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-1>
<H1>
Olympic games ended
</H1>
The president of the international Olympic committee, Samaranch, declared the
Olympic games of Atlanta closed. During the closing ceremony in the Olympic
stadium in front of more than 80,000 spectators, he called on the youth of the
world to participate in the next summer Olympics which will be held in Sydney,
Australia in the year 2000. Afterwards he received the Olympic flag from the
mayor of Atlanta and passed it on to the mayor of Sydney. He thanked the capital
of the US state Georgia with the words: "Well done Atlanta". He also remembered
the victims of the bomb attack in Centennial Olympic Park and the casualties
during the Olympic games in Munich 1972. Samaranch emphasized that no act of
terrorism has been able to destroy the Olympic movement, and none ever will.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-2>
<H1>
Germany requests extradition of Karl Hass
</H1>
Apart from Erich Priebke, the German department of justice
intends to try the 84-year old Karl Hass as well, for war crimes committed in
Italy. The office of the district attorney in Dortmund confirmed that Germany
requested the extradition of the SS officer Hass. Like Priebke, Hass confessed
to having killed two people during the execution of 335 hostages in the Ardiatic
(sp?) caves in 1944. Hass, who lives in Italy, has not been arrested but the
authorities confiscated his passport, according to a spokesperson of the Italian
department of justice.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-3>
<H1>
HBV continues strikes
</H1>
The union for trade, bank, and insurance employees (HBV) continued
its strike actions today in the wage dispute for the retail business. The
national union of employees (DAG) also threatened a drastic intensification of
the labor dispute if the upcoming negotiations in Rhineland-Palatinate or
Bavaria do not end with a trend-setting agreement.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-4>
<H1>
Emergency meeting regarding BSE transferability
</H1>
The possible transferability of the cattle disease BSE from the cow to the calf
was the subject of an emergency meeting in Bonn. Experts followed the invitation
by the minister of agriculture, Borchert, and the minister of health, Seehofer,
to analyze the latest findings about the disease and discuss items that are
still open, e.g. how far the pedigrees of German cows have to be traced back to
completely rule out a BSE risk. This question came up after British scientists
found out that the BSE agent can very well be transferred from the cow to the
calf. Risk: 10 percent. So far, the only possible way of transfer was supposed
to be the feeding with BSE contaminated animal feed. Since this theory can no
longer be upheld, it is possible that animals which were not born on the island,
but have British "ancestors" could develop the disease years later. Some people
in charge therefore do no longer rule out the possibility that the BSE virus is
being transferred with the milk. A theory which German scientists neither
consider to be proven, nor do they think it impossible. A corresponding series
of tests is currently being conducted in Great Britain. The agricultural
minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, Hoehn, advocated an extension of the beef
export ban to milk products from Great Britain as a result of the new findings.
Ms. Hoehn told Deutschlandfunk radio this morning that an intensification of the
embargo should be considered as long as it is not clear whether the disease is
transferred from the cow to the calf with the mother's milk. The politician of
the Greens emphasized that it was a mistake to relax the embargo following the
pressure of the British government because it could not be ruled out that semen
is a possible carrier of the disease.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-5>
<H1>
DBB warns against scaremongering regarding pensions for public servants
</H1>
The national union of civil servants (DBB) warned against scaremongering
and a jump to conclusions in the dispute over a possible drastic increase of the
pensions for civil servants. DBB leader Geier, talked about a campaign against
the public services. The reason for the current discussions are the latest
calculations by the school of administration in Speyer, according to which the
annual cost for the pensions of public servants on the federal level alone will
double from 10 to 20 billion DM within the next three decades.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-6>
<H1>
Demonstration in Dannenberg
</H1>
Several hundred people demonstrated at the train station of Dannenberg against a
test run for another Castor transport. According to the citizens' action
committee "Umweltschutz (environmental protection) Luechow-Dannenberg" it was
planned to test the use of a new container for the transportation of nuclear
waste to the intermediate nuclear storage facility in Gorleben. A test run that
was planned for last week had to be cancelled, apparently because the Police had
not enough manpower due to the "chaos days" in Hanover.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-7>
<H1>
Semi-annual report by Dept. for the tutelage of the constitution
</H1>
The first six months of this year show a considerable decrease in violent acts
with extreme right or left background in Bavaria. That is the result of a
semi-annual report by the Bavarian Department for the tutelage of the
constitution which was released by the minister of the interior, Beckstein,
today. An organized neo-nazi scene is almost nonexistent, according to the
estimate by Beckstein, but there is a risk of right-wingers forming up again.
The largest decrease could be seen in violent acts committed by extreme
right-wingers. Only 13 acts of violence have been registered in the first 6
months of 1996. That is 50% less than last year, but one extreme-right
organization, "Skinheads Allgaeu", has been banned already despite its disguise
as a society for the maintenance of Skinhead culture. "Two-thirds of its members
have been involved in criminal investigations, some of them several times. The
glorification of National Socialism, the use of NS symbols, NS slogans, and
hatred against foreigners were essential parts of this Skinhead scene,"
Beckstein said. The party "The Republicans" remains anti-constitutional
according to the opinion of the Bavarian ministry of the interior. The same
applies to the extreme left-wing party PDS. Autonomous left-wing groups which
are willing to use violence are infiltrating the anti-nuclear movement. The
decrease of violence by foreign extremists should not be misleading. The Kurdish
PKK is still willing to use violence, said Beckstein.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-8>
<H1>
Verdict in murder trial
</H1>
A judgment was pronounced today in the so-called "girl murder trial", which
lasted for two month. The jury court in Munich had to determine whether the
36-year old defendant, Mario Abend, killed an 18-year old student following an
attempted rape. According to the prosecutor, Walter Weidman, there could only be
one sentence for the murder of the girl and the rape of three other women: life
imprisonment in connection with preventive detention. That would mean that Mario
Abend would be released after 25 years at the earliest. The defense pleaded for
manslaughter and a limited sentence. The prosecution is convinced that Abend
tried to rape the student during the night of January 8, 1995. The girl fought
back, so Abend hit and finally strangled her. He then brought the corpse into
his apartment and threw her in a garbage container the following day. The fact
that workers in a waste treatment plant found the dead body made it possible to
solve the case of the missing Stefanie K. and that Abend could be put on trial.
The defense denied the low motives for Abend's actions and called them pure
speculations. Last week, the prosecution had accused a psychology expert
appointed by the defense of manipulations in favor of the defendant. The
psychologist was challenged for bias by the court and is facing a judicial
inquiry. The court sentenced Abend according to the prosecution's motion. In his
statement, the leading judge Juergen Hahnrich described Abend as a person with a
tendency to violent acts and sexual offenses. He carefully selected his victims
and attacked women who could not be dangerous for him as witnesses.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-9>
<H1>
Handicapped children have a right of classes with non-handicapped
</H1>
Authorities can not transfer physically handicapped children from a
regular to a special school without special reasons. That was found by the
Federal Administrative Court in a decision published today. In states with a
corresponding school law, which grants handicapped children the right to attend
the same classes as the non-handicapped, the school authorities have to state
the reasons for the transfer.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-10>
<H1>
Henry Maske announces his retirement
</H1>
Henry Maske announced his retirement from professional boxing. The
32-year old world champion stated during a press conference that the fight on
October 12 against the US American Vergil Hill will be his last. Maske is going
to work as a co-announcer for a private TV station.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-05-11>
<H1>
Soccer Fuji Cup
</H1>
First semi-final in Ulm.
FC Bayern Muenchen - Borussia Moenchengladbach 4:0 (2:0)

