<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-1>
<H1>
Government to make up tax shortfall through sale of Telekom shares
</H1>
The ruling coalition is planning to make up the projected tax
shortfall through the further sale of shares in the Telekom
telecommunications company and by increasing the national debt. Theo
Waigel, the finance minister, stressed that the government might well sell
all its remaining shares in Telekom before the year 2000; he would only
raise taxes to fill the gap in the budget as a last resort. He said that
an increase in net federal debt was called for due to the current high
rates of unemployment. Waigel gave his assurance, however, that Germany
would do everything in its power to ensure that it meets the criteria for
European monetary union; up till now, any increase in national debt had
been ruled out by the criteria laid out in the Maastricht treaty. The SPD
derided Waigel's comments as a declaration of bankruptcy and called on him
to resign. Struck, the leader of the SPD parliamentary party in the
Bundestag, said that money raised from the sale of Telekom shares would
not be enough to fill the budgetary gap and that the government would have
to quickly raise valued added tax or the tax on mineral oil. The results
of the government's tax assessment will be officially released tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-2>
<H1>
SPD parliamentary party back leadership's pension reform policy
</H1>
The SPD parliamentary party in the Bundestag has backed the party
leadership's policy on pension reform. The unanimous feeling among those
who took part in a meeting of the parliamentary party in Bonn was that
there was no point in having negotiations on the reform with the ruling
coalition, unless the CDU/CSU and the FDP were seriously prepared to enter
into a compromise; the ruling coalition was showing no sign of being ready
to back down, however. At the parliamentary party's meeting, Dressler, an
SPD politician with responsibility for social affairs, described the SPD's
concept for the pension reform; this includes in particular the proposal
that pension companies should not have to pay out for non-insurance based
obligations and that the pension level should be maintained at 70 per
cent. In order to achieve this, the subsidy from taxes would be raised in
stages by DM 30 billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-3>
<H1>
Bundestag opposition is against new "Transrapid" plan
</H1>
Transport minister Wissman's new plan for the "Transrapid" suspension
railway has been criticised as unworkable by the SPD opposition. In a
special parliamentary session, Ferner, a transport spokesperson for the
SPD, spoke of an incalculable, financial disaster. Altmann, a transport
spokesperson for the Greens, was also of the opinion that the "Transrapid"
would never be profitable and said that the route should be built and run
by German Railways because private industry was no longer prepared to take
the financial risk. Wissman dismissed this criticism and maintained that
his plan would enable the state to recoup all the building costs in the
long term. The risk was of an acceptable level.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-4>
<H1>
SPD and Greens reject some planned reforms in health provision
</H1>
The Mediation Committee of the Bundestag and Bundesrat has rejected some
of the reforms in health provision which were planned by the government.
The SPD and Green majority voted against the planned abolition of
budgetary provision for medicines and doctors' salaries. An increase in
the patient contribution towards the cost of medicines was also rejected.
The opposition parties rejected these measures as they said that they
would cause an increase in expenditure of several billion DM. The
government can overturn this decision and enact the bill into law using
the so-called "Chancellor's majority".

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-5>
<H1>
Ruehe pleased with expansion of Bundeswehr in eastern Germany
</H1>
Volker Ruehe, the minister for defence, is pleased with the
expansion of the Bundeswehr in eastern Germany; he said that he believes
that the integration of eastern and western Germany has been most
successful in the shortest time in the army. He said that around one third
of trainee officers comes from the east and that the extensive plans for
the army in the newer federal states will be put into action, despite
current financial problems; these plans include the airforce base in Lage
in Mecklenburg and the army's officer training school's planned move to
Dresden from Hanover next year. Since 1991, a total of DM 645 million has
been invested in these two projects.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-6>
<H1>
East German CDU politicians say subsidies for the east are insufficient
</H1>
Leading east German politicians from the CDU have criticised the planned
level of subsidies for the east and have demanded a clear perspective on
future financial aid. In an interview with 'Deutschlandradio Berlin',
Vogel, the Prime Minister of Thueringen, stressed that it was an
imperative that a decision on future financial support for business in
eastern Germany should be made quickly. He said that the new federal
states need to be able to make secure plans for the years up to and beyond
1998 as quickly as possible. Schommer (sp?), the Finance Minister for
Saxony, said in an interview with 'Deutschlandfunk' radio that the new
states need DM 6.8 billion in direct subsidies; in addition to this, state
grants for investment are needed. In 'Deutschlandradio Berlin', Schwanitz
(sp?), a Member of Parliament for the SPD, said that it would be a big
mistake if the CDU politicians backed down from their original demand that
the state's continued promotion of investment should be linked to the
income tax reform; there was no alternative to the continued provision of
financial support for the new states. Yesterday, the Federal cabinet gave
its approval to the new plan for subsidies in the east in principle, but
it postponed its formal acceptance of the proposed figure of DM 5.7
billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-7>
<H1>
Negotiators in construction industry pay talks to meet again tomorrow
</H1>
The radio station 'Deutschlandfunk' has reported that, according to one of
the participants, Union representatives and employers in the construction
industry are to meet again tomorrow in an attempt to reconcile their
differences in the current round of pay talks. The meeting is to be held
at a secret location. The key sticking point in the talks concerns sick
pay; the mediator announced last week that only 80 per cent of a worker's
salary should be paid in the first three weeks of sick leave. The union IG
Bau is demanding that 100 per cent should be paid.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-8>
<H1>
Potsdam police discover part of Russian "Bernsteinzimmer"
</H1>
The Potsdam police have discover what seems to be part of the
legendary Russian "Bernsteinzimmer". Officers impounded the mosaic, which
was only slightly damaged, at a notary's office in Bremen. Preliminary
examinations by experts from Potsdam and Saint Petersburg seem to confirm
that the artwork is genuine, but a final expert judgement has not yet been
reached. According to the police, this is the first discovery of any part
of the treasure which has been missing since the Second World War.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-9>
<H1>
New German National Library building opened
</H1>
Frankfurt am Main. The new German National Library building was
ceremonially opened today. Everything that has been published in Germany
since the end of the war will be collected in the new building, and in
addition to this, the library will store all foreign publications in
German from 1945 onwards; the building has space for around 18 million
books. Every day 1,000 new works arrive at the library. The new building
cost DM 250 million.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-10>
<H1>
State parliament in Schleswig-Holstein celebrates 50th anniversary
</H1>
The state parliament in Schleswig-Holstein has celebrated its 50th
anniversary today. The parliament was first elected on 20th April 1947 on
the orders of the British occupying forces. Ahrents (sp?), the president
of the parliament, called for more political co-operation in the face of
the great social challenges which stand ahead. In a celebratory session of
the parliament, Ahrents said that, despite differing political opinions, a
democratic consensus and an intact political culture are needed.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-11>
<H1>
Norddeutsche Landesbank and Bankgesellschaft Berlin to merge
</H1>
The Norddeutsche Landesbank and the Bankgesellschaft Berlin plan
to merge by the middle of 1998. According to the Norddeutsche Landesbank,
the negotiations should be completed by the end of this year. The new bank
will be the second largest in Germany, after the Deutsche Bank in
Frankfurt. The goal of the merger is to allow the banks to remain
competitive. Several important parts of the new, merged bank are to be
situated in Hanover.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-12>
<H1>
Daimler-Benz agrees new pay package with works council
</H1>
Daimler-Benz has agreed a further pay package with its works council. It
will affect the 15,000 employees at branches of Mercedes who are to do
without part of future pay increases, in return for which the company will
announce no redundancies before the year 2000. In addition to this, 1,800
apprenticeships in the 100 sales and service establishments are also
assured.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-14-13>
<H1>
Tennis
</H1>
Steffi Graf has reached the quarter finals of the German Open in
Berlin, beating the Romanian player Dragumir (sp?) with 6:3 and 6:2. At
the tournament in Rome, Marc Kevin Goellner has reached the eighth finals
by beating the Dutchman Kraijek (sp?) in two sets.

