<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-1>
<H1>
Scientology accuses Germany of employing Gestapo tactics
</H1>
The resolution passed at Friday's conference of ministers of the
interior to keep Scientology under the surveillance of the Office
for the Protection of the Constitution has triggered some strong
reactions.  In Los Angeles, at the Scientology headquarters the
claim was made that the Federal Republic had granted itself a
license to spy on its own citizens.  Mention was also made of
Gestapo tactics.  Then the reaction of the USA was eagerly awaited.
In the USA, Scientology is recognized as a non-profit church.  The
US State Department reacted with a great deal of restraint to
the resolution of the German conference of ministers of the interior.
In Washington State Department spokesperson Nicholas Burns
said that the US government was not yet aware of
the details spelled out in the resolution.  Burns said literally
that, among friends, one does not shoot first and ask questions
later.  He recalled that the American State Department
had included the situation of the sect in Germany in its report on
human rights.  At the same time, Burns emphasized that "Germany
must be protected against the wild accusation of the Scientology
Church in the USA that any treatment of the Scientologists in
Germany can be compared to the treatment Jews received during the
reign of National Socialism."  This was the reaction of the US
State Department to the declaration which Scientology
headquarters in Los Angeles made to the press on Friday.  In this
declaration, the sect referred to the resolution of ministers of
the interior as "the last of a series of Gestapo tactics." In the
USA, the Church of Scientology has repeatedly been under FBI
scrutiny since its founding more than four decades ago.  In 1993,
under circumstances which have not been explained as yet, the sect
was granted the tax exempt status it had desired by the US Internal
Revenue Service.  Up until then, the sect was viewed by US
government offices as a commercial undertaking with questionable
business methods.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-2>
<H1>
Zwickel demands catalogue of measures against unemployment
</H1>
IG Metal-Chief Zwickel has demanded that the federal government
issue a catalogue of measures to combat unemployment.  The measures
to obtain jobs would have to be expanded instead of being limited,
he told the NEUE OSNABRUECKER ZEITUNG.  Mr. Zwickel also pleaded
for early retirement for older workers.  He reproached the federal
government for doing nothing to combat high unemployment.  He was
critical of the low May decrease in the number of unemployed workers.
The statistic fell by only 90,000; he called the decrease pitiful.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-3>
<H1>
Tax payers' alliance calls for governmental economy measures
</H1>
 The tax payers' alliance has called for radical economy
measures to be taken by the state.  In the newspaper SONNTAG
AKTUELL,the head of the alliance, Mr. Daeke, calls for scrutiny of
all payments by the federation, the states and towns.  He said that
Germany could no longer afford the expensive welfare state.
Personnel expenditures should be cut in the areas of transitional
payments and senior care for politicians.  At the same time, Mr.
Daeke firmly rejected new tax increases.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-4>
<H1>
DGB is mobilizing against Bonn's economy policies
</H1>
The German Alliance of Unions is mobilizing once again to combat
Bonn's economy measures.  The Bavarian Alliance had called for a
major demonstration on Saturday at noon on the Marienplatz in
Munich.  The motto: "Generations united for work and social
justice." According to reports by the Alliance, a total of
approximately 15 000 people was expected to participate. "March
separately but protest together," was the motto of male and female
unionists in Munich today.  As was the case every time the Alliance
called for demonstrations of late, these expressed concern
about cutbacks in social programs and economy measures - no matter
whether these had to do with wages, disability pensions, education,
or social programs.  In this matter, the DGB of Bavaria, so its
head, Mr. Fritz Schoesser, states, wants, for once, to oppose a
trend.  "Against a trend because, at the moment, everyone's
orientation is to play young against old.  And, specifically, far
above all in the case of social program insurance. Whoever refers to the
excessive demands placed on young people whenever the subject
matter is securing care for the aged is engaged in splitting the young
and the elderly and conjures up the war of the generations."
To be sure, for the moment, the DGB had two separate agendas in
Munich on Saturday: the young people discussed education and jobs;
while older colleagues discussed pensions and health.  After that,
they met at the Marienplatz where the generations expressed their
separate demands.  The main speaker chosen by the Bavarian unions
was the head of a large critical area, Klaus Wiesehuegel, head of
the Construction Union.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-5>
<H1>
Waigel chances further budget reductions
</H1>
Finance Minister Waigel will chance further savings measures in order to
cover the billions of marks of deficits in the federal budget. The CSU politician confirmed these press reports in Erlangen. He believes that there are
considerations to make renewed reductions in the Federal Office for Labor in
the second half of 1997. The Christmas bonus for officials would also be
reexamined. Waigel called on the FDP to cooperate on the construction of a
budget for the coming year that conforms to the Constitution. The size of the
new debt must not overwhelm the means for investment, and for this reason tax
hikes must also be discussed. FDP General Secretary Westerwelle rejected this
possibility outright again. The Bonn coalition would stay by its existing plan
of tax reduction policies, Westerwelle told DEUTSCHLANDFUNK. The budget for
1998 should be consolidated along the lines of privatization initiatives and
further savings.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-6>
<H1>
Bruederle threatens that the FDP will leave the coalition
</H1>
The FDP would have to leave the Bonn coalition if it were to insist on tax
hikes, in the opinion of the acting chief of the party Bruederle. He told the
news magazine FOCUS that this would be the right decision even with consideration of the upcoming elections. An FDP that left the government to hinder
tax increases could garner 15 percent, he said.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-7>
<H1>
Issen assumes an early nomination for SPD chancellor candidate
</H1>
The head of the German Workers' Union (DAG) Issen is planning on his party,the
SPD, selecting its Chancellor's candidate earlier than expected. Issen told
the Berlin newspaper BZ that a clear decision must be taken no later than
December, at the federal SPD caucus. The SPD head has so far maintained that
the challenger of Chancellor Kohl would not be named before next spring.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-8>
<H1>
Koehler warns against EU currency union at any cost by January 1, 1999
</H1>
The President of the German savings and transfer banks, Koehler, opposed
the start of the EU currency union at all costs by January 1st, 1999. Quality
must be the first concern, Koehler told the newspaper SONNTAG AKTUELL. The
goal of the introduction of the Euro are still attainable. In any case the
realization of the plan has become much less certain in the wake of the uproar
over the gold in the Bundesbank, as well as the victory of the left in France.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-9>
<H1>
Beckstein: Bosnian refugees are temporary guests
</H1>
Bavaria's Interior Minister Beckstein characterized the Bosnian refugees in
Germany as temporary guests. After the decision of the Interior Ministers'
conference to restrict repatriations, Beckstein said to DEUTSCHLANDFUNK that
for Moslems and Croats from Serbian territory as well, the situation was often
not generally about a deprtation stop. Certainly no one wants to return these
people to that part of the world, but under the circumstances they could be
sent to Sarajevo.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-10>
<H1>
Youth Union meets in Erlangen
</H1>
The next generation of the CSU has been meeting in Franconian Erlangen
since Friday evening. Saturday's main themes concerned economic matters at the
state meeting. CSU leader Waigel and the head of Siemens board of directors
von Piera discussed the opportunities in global competition. Other topics
included the labor market, environment and family.
The reelected state leader of the Youth Union of Bavaria, Markus Soeder, is
calling for a restorative dose of youth for the Bavarian Landtag. Nine or ten
seats in the Bavarian Landtag should belong to YU representitives in the
future. Until now only three of the 120 parliamentarians are 35 years old
or under, so the YU demanded that each CSU seat that comes free should be
filled by one of their own candidates.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-11>
<H1>
Independent Voters prepare way for participation in Landtag elections
</H1>
The Landtag election results for the CSU in the past years have retreated
continuously, but so slowly that their proportion remined well over fifty
percent. That situation could change next September, specifically because
the Independent Voters will enter and could be especially attractive to
conservative citizens. At their establishment meeting in Ansbach, they set
forth their requirements for becoming a candidate for the Landstag.
<P>
The Independent Voters will avoid a party line like the devil avoids holy
water, so says Iris Bils, a member of the Landstag. For that reason the state
leaders are prizing the development of an organized group of voters who support
the Independent Voters above all else, and careful not to confuse that with
the founding of a party. The establishment meeting in Ansbach was more along
the lines of fulfilling a formal legalistic requirement. According to federal
election law only parties, voters' organizations and organized groups of
voters can participate in elections for the Landtag. This requirement should
be fulfilled for the Independent Voters with the meeting and with the decision
on rules. At that point the way should be clear for the Independent Voters to
the Bavarian Landtag. The group has already established itself among the local
councils. Independent Voters' groups received about 18% of seats in these
local councils, and control 8 regional councils. Nearly every third mayor is
a member of the Independent Voters, according to their figures.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-12>
<H1>
"Rossini" receives Gold Ribbon
</H1>
Director Helmut Dietl was twice honored with the 1997 German Film Prize last
night in Berlin. The Ribbon for Best Film, the top award, went to his picture
"Rossini", a societal satire he directed. The prize carries an award of
DM 900,000. Dietl was also recognized as the best director for his work on
"Rossini". Best Acting Gold Ribbons went to Sylvie Testud for "Beyond the
Silence" and to Juergen Vogel for "Life is a Construction Site".

<DOC de-news-1997-06-07-13>
<H1>
Thomas Helmer is the new captain of Bayern Munich
</H1>
At the German first division soccer league champions Bayern Munich, Thomas
Helmer has been selected new team captain. The previous captain, Lothar
Matthaeus, was removed. This was the reaction of the team management around
president Beckenbauer to the impact of the diary excerpts from the most
capped national team member, which only exacerbated existing differences that
between themselves and him.
Borussia Dortmund is searching for a successor to Otmar Hitzfeld, who will
continue with the club as Sports Director.

