<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-1>
<H1>
Alliance 90/Greens Election Party Convention
</H1>
Green Party speaker Roestel has ruled out a Red-Green minority government in
Bonn with support from the PDS. Roestel was quoted on television as saying
that there will be a large coalition if Red-Green does not at least
receive a one vote majority in the Bundestag elections. On the federal
level, Alliance 90/Greens will not accept support from the PDS, as has the
party's state fraction in Saxony-Anhalt. The Green Party wants to debate
and decide on the central points of their election program today at their
Party Convention. The ecological tax reform, social security and social
policy as well as education and foreign policy are on the agenda. Bavarian
Alliance 90/Greens representative Scheel came to the point. What good is
a good concept for ecological social tax reform when everyone only talks
about the price of gasoline. According to the election program, the price
for a liter of gas should gradually be raised to 5 DM by 2008. The
consumer should also be relieved by a equilateral lowering of the
additional wage costs with the earnings from the energy tax. The Greens
also want to do away with the motor vehicle tax. However, Scheel claims
that these suggestions are being ignored in the present discussions.
"These five Marks are like a sword of Damocles on the social ecological tax
reform. The entire debate is the central message - modernization, economic
policy, to do something useful and socially balanced to lower the
additional wage costs - and no one can offer any suggestions on how to
achieve this. The main discussion, this stupid discussion, about five
Marks is overshadowing our central message. No one is mentioning that it
will happen over ten years." Mrs. Scheel received support from the eastern
German regional organizations. A gasoline price of five Marks can not be
negotiated - especially in the new states. Those who support the increase
feel that the Alliance 90/Greens should nail their colors to the mast and
sell their concept better. Not to mention the fact that a lower price now
would give a strange impression after the Lower Saxony elections. On a
side note: The Alliance 90/Greens are not exactly showing a good example
during their party convention in Magdeburg. The environmental party is being
sponsored by a automobile company of all things. VW is supplying a shuttle
service for the delegates.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-2>
<H1>
SPD Landtag election campaign begins in Saxony-Anhalt
</H1>
Magdeburg, the state capital of Saxony-Anhalt, is also important for the
Social Democrats. The members of Saxony-Anhalt are beginning the election
campaign for the Landtag election at the end of April today - exactly one
week after the decisive victory of the SPD in Lower Saxony. Candidate for
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder is joining state leader and top candidate
Reinhold Hoeppner. Cabaret music, dancing and clowns - the start of the
election campaign today almost feels like a victory celebration. The
Social Democrats in Saxony-Anhalt are actually very confident. State
leader Hoeppner explained that a Red-Green majority is the party's
campaign goal, and since Schroeder's victory in Lower Saxony, Hoeppner has
another goal - to receive as many votes as the candidate for Chancellor (4
percent). Anything else, according to Hoeppner, would be a disappointment.
Should the Greens not win in the Landtag in Saxony-Anhalt (something that
hasn't been entirely ruled out), the SPD might consider continuing the
Magdeburg model alone with the toleration of the PDS. Hoeppner rules out
cooperation with the Socialists. Instead, the Party and their 6,000 members
are setting their hopes on the momentum from Lower Saxony. Like the
election in Lower Saxony, the Saxony-Anhalt election is also a measurement
of the much talked-about ousting of Kohl. The same public relations agency
that organized the election campaign in Lower Saxony has been hired for
the election campaign in Saxony-Anhalt, which will cost at least 1.5
million DM. No other than Gerhard Schroeder himself is expected later in
the afternoon today in Magdeburg.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-3>
<H1>
Kinkel heads the regional list of candidates for Baden-Wuerttemburg FDP
</H1>
Federal foreign minister Kinkel once again heads the of the Baden-
Wuerttemburg FDP's regional list of parliamentary candidates for the Bundestag
election. The convention of regional representatives of the Liberal Party
elected Kinkel as top candidate with 98 percent of the vote in Gerlingen.
Stuttgart Bundestag representative Frick occupied second place and former
Federal minister of trade and commerce Hausmann is at third place. Kinkel
feels his party has a good chance in the election. The FPD would agree to
a coalition with the CDU/CSU and could win the election together with the
Union.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-4>
<H1>
Scharping top candidate of the Rhineland-Palatinate SPD
</H1>
The chairman of the SPD Bundestag parliamentary party,
Scharping, has once again been elected as his party's top candidate for
Rhineland-Palatinate SPD in the parliamentary elections. Scharping
received 231 of 241 delegate votes in Muehlheim-Kaerlich at the party
convention of the regional SPD. There were 3 votes against and seven
abstentions. Employees of the now shut-down nuclear power plant, who fear
for their jobs after the plant's license was canceled, demonstrated in
front of the conference building.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-5>
<H1>
Craft trade fair opens in Munich
</H1>
Bavarian state leader Stoiber does not miss any chance to pound for the strict
enforcement of the Euro criterion. He said today at the opening of the
craft trade fair in Munich that it is important that the Euro-candidates
master the craft of solid budgeting and not simply rely on a master
craftsman's diploma in statistics. Just how important the Euro is in the
craft trade was made clear in the opening speech of Heinrich Traublinger,
chairman of the board of the craft trade fair. There can not be a common
currency with bureaucratic hurdles for the middle class. "That is why we
are calling for the quickest conversion from DM to the Euro as possible,
if at all possible over one weekend, in order to avoid unnecessarily long
and costly parallel currency phases." European integration appears to not
recognize the needs of the middle class. "We all want a united and
peaceful Europe, and I am sure that we are on the right way to achieving
this. But we do not under any circumstances want to enter into a financial
and politic dream that could eventually cause the carefully constructed
European foundation to totter." Bavarian state leader Stoiber agreed with
Traublinger. Stoiber explained that he agrees with the craft union's views
and that there is no reason for "Europhory". The present deficit numbers
need to be double-checked so that the Germany's certification is not
based only on statistics, but on a craftfully arranged, long-lasting and
solid budgetary policy. A common currency offers more than a technical
conversion, according to Stoiber. It offers a dramatic change of its
economic requirements.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-6>
<H1>
New case of meningitis in Bavaria
</H1>
The all-clear in the meningitis scare in Bavaria was apparently too early.
Another student has come down with the dangerous illness. The 18 year old
was on a class trip in Italy when he fell into a coma on the train back.
He is presently being treated in a hospital in Medona and he is apparently
already doing better. He is no longer in critical condition, but the
doctors do not yet recommend a transfer to Bavaria. The group of students
were not, as originally reported, on their way to go skiing near Medona,
but on a trip to Rome.  After the authorities were sure that it was
meningitis, they stopped the train in Innsbruck. The other 22 students
were given shots of antibiotics. The authorities then conducted a
large-scale operation late in the evening in Rosenheim; they ordered all
youth to undergo a thorough examination. The other travelers in the
train were also examined. Two students were admitted into the hospital
as a precaution. The authorities know today that there were no other cases
of infection in the train. All 22 students are now at home. The Ministry
of the Interior in Bavaria is feverishly trying to locate where the
student became infected - whether he got the meningitis in Rome or at home
near Starnberg.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-7>
<H1>
Appeal against Priebke and Hass
</H1>
The decisions in the appeal cases against the SS officers Priebke
and Hass are expected today. The public prosecutor asked for life sentences
for both defendants in the military court. They are charged with
participation with intention and cruelty in the massacre in the Adriatic
caves in 1944, where 335 Italian civilians were murdered.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-8>
<H1>
SWR administrative council and programming guidelines unconstitutional
</H1>
The former vice president of the Federal Constitutional Court
Marenholz has judged that the combination of the administrative council of
the new "Suedwest Rundfunk" radio station and the programming guidelines
layed out in an international treaty as unconstitutional. Marenholz
claimed in an interview with dpa, a news agency, that political
representatives are overrepresented in the administrative council and the
radio council. Also, the basic law guaranteeing programming freedom of the
SWR is limited by determining a program in an international treaty.
This violates the requirement of separation of state and public media,
according to the judge.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-9>
<H1>
International Tourism Fair opens
</H1>
The International Tourism Fair (ITB) opened today in Berlin. Over 7,000
exhibitors from almost 190 countries have come to the world's largest tourism
trade fair in the capital city. Berlin is once again the central focus for
vacation dreams and hard business deals for tour managers throughout the
world. The 32nd international tourism trade fair ITB will open its doors
for the next five days and maintain its status as the world's largest
tourism fair. In order to achieve this, the grounds under the radio tower
have been enlarged and the number of exhibitors increased. Only a few
countries are not represented in Berlin. Popular vacation goals as well as
unknown regions, i.e., Fujava - a region in the United Arab Emirates, are
being advertised. Competition in the travel industry has grown more
severe. After the large growth in the last few years, sales have dropped
for the first time. The exhibitors are mainly focusing their interests on
the trade fair professional visitors. 50,000 professional visitors are
expected. Only they are welcome in the halls on Monday. The normal
vacationer has to stay outside. A second day for professionals is already
planned for next year.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-07-10>
<H1>
Serious collision on the A8
</H1>
Thirteen people - including eight teenagers - were injured (some
seriously) in a collision between two tour buses on the Autobahn A8
Salzburg - Munich. A speaker for the police said that one of the buses had
to break sharply due to an auto that had stopped abruptly. The driver in
the bus behind him noticed it too late and drove into the bus in front of
him.

