<DOC de-news-1998-07-05-1>
<H1>
Berti Vogts continues, Juergen Klinsmann leaves team
</H1>
Berti Vogts will continue as coach for the German national
soccer team. At a press conference of the German Football Federation
(DFB) in Nice, he denied speculation that he had been thinking of
resigning after Germany's defeat by Croatia on Saturday evening. FC
Bayern president Franz Beckenbauer has supported Vogts' decision. Mr.
Beckenbauer said that they will find new ways of promoting young players
and emphasized that there was no-one better than Berti Vogts for the job.
He continued that Vogts was the ideal man for rebuilding the German side,
particularly in light of his many years experience coaching young players.

<P>
Juergen Klinsmann announced that he would not be playing for Germany
again at the same press conference. The captain of the German team also
said that he did not know if he was going to carry on with football.
Clearly moved, the blonde from Swabia in Southern Germany said that there
was a simple explanation for his withdrawal and that was entirely due to
his
family. He said that he knew that he had absolutely no problems
physically.
However, the situation was that he wanted to spend more time with his
family, particularly his 15-month-old son.

<P>
The German Football Federation has already left France and traveled back
to Germany. Practically none of their representatives agreed to make a
statement after arriving in Frankfurt and Munich. Only Sepp Maier, the
goalkeeper coach, made the following comment: "As you know, a bit of luck
is part and parcel of participating in such an important championship. We
were lucky in 1996 and won the European Championships, and, well, our
luck just ran out in these championships."

<DOC de-news-1998-07-05-2>
<H1>
FIFA rejects criticism of referees
</H1>
FIFA, international football's governing body, has rejected German coach
Berti Vogts' sharp criticism of a referee. His accusations regarding an
incident were absolutely unjustified, they said. There isn't and hasn't
been favoritism for one nation or another, stressed a FIFA spokesman. Mr.
Vogts had blamed the referee for contributing to Germany losing against
Croatia on Saturday evening and indirectly said that the FIFA had been
responsible of manipulating. Mr. Vogts said in an interview with the ARD
television station that German football had perhaps been too successful.
He  did not know, however, if there had been instructions in this regard.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-05-3>
<H1>
Schroeder rejects speed limits demanded by Greens
</H1>
SPD chancellor candidate Gerhardt Schroeder has said that he is
strictly against the demands by the Green party to reduce speed limits on
German freeways. Such changes, according to him, just couldn't be made.
Other SPD politicians have made similar comments. The Green party has
called for speed limits on German freeways to be reduced to 100
kilometers per hour, to 80 kilometers on country roads and 30 kilometers
in built-up areas. Mr. Schroeder said that the Greens were obviously keen
on self-destruction and that to want to reduce speed limits was old hat.
As regards the speed-limit in built-up areas, Mr. Schroeder said that
this was up to local government.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-05-4>
<H1>
Private mobile telephone network providers also to provide local rates
</H1>
Private mobile telephone network providers have followed in the
Telekom's footsteps in instituting local rates for mobile telephones.
This was announced by a spokesman of MobilCom and the market leader
Mannesmann. MobilCom plans to institute the new rates before the Telekom
who will introduce them by the end of August.

