<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-1>
<H1>
Country-wide protests against sick-pay cuts
</H1>
All over Germany workers rallied against the cuts of sick-leave payments
that came into effect today. According to the workers' council of
Daimler-Benz more than 100,000 company employees took part in the
demonstrations. In the Sindelfingen plant alone, 16,000 workers left after
the morning shift. In Untertuerkheim it was 10,000 workers and 6500 in
Mannheim. In all the smaller plants, too, the workers refused to work. As a
result of the first week of protests more than 4000 cars and trucks were
not assembled. This represents losses of DM200m for Daimler-Benz. Workers
of other companies showed solidarity with Daimler employees by taking to
token strikes. This morning about 700 delegates of the union for
transportation and public services, OeTV, held a rally in front of the
Daimler-Benz factory in Untertuerkheim. OeTV president Herbert Mai stated
that such a welfare dismantling would be met with resistance. Karl
Feuerstein, head of the workers' council for all Daimler-Benz employees
announced more actions if the Daimler board of directors did not reverse
its decision to cut sick-pay.

<P>
Car manufacturer Audi announced that their workers would continue to
receive full sick-leave payments. However, twenty percent of the time the
worker is not on the job will be subtracted from a so-called time account.
How these "debts" may be reduced will be decided later. Porsche's chief
executive officer Widekind stated that also his company has suspended the
20% sick-pay cut for the time being. He said absenteeism in the German
automobile industry is low. Meanwhile, the metal workers union IG Metall
said Siemens had revoked its decision to cut sick-leave payments.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-2>
<H1>
Public services and transportation union and metal union with joint efforts
</H1>
The Union for Public Services and Transportation (OeTV) and the Union for
Metal, Engineering and Electronics (IG Metall) want to fight jointly for
full sick-leave payments. OeTV president Herbert Mai said at the federal
congress of OeTV that workers had to face employers as one. Mai has
recently been re-elected as union president by a majority of 88.5% of valid
votes. His deputies, Mr. Warburg and Mr. Schmid, have also been confirmed
in their offices

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-3>
<H1>
CDU presents outline of tax reform
</H1>
The Christian-Democratic Union wants to reduce income tax levels
significantly and, in return, abolish exceptions in the tax code. According
to an outline for a party congress on the planned tax reform the top tax
rate will be lowered from 53 to 35 percent. The minimal tax rate will also
be reduced from currently 25.9 to under 20 percent. Secretary of the
faction Wolfgang Schaeuble said the aim of the tax reform is to encourage
investment and engagement. Schaeuble also announced that salary substitutes
such as unemployment benefits, unemployment aid, and child-care benefits
would be taxable in future.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-4>
<H1>
UNHCR criticizes interior ministers
</H1>
The Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva has
criticized the decision by German state interior ministers to allow the
repatriation of Bosnian refugees starting today. A UNHCR spokeswoman said a
list of 22 safe Bosnian regions published by the agency has been
misinterpreted by the German authorities. The list contained only details
referring to personal safety. A repatriation at the start of the winter was
only possible when there are enough housing and supply facilities. The
organization for refugees Pro Asyl urged Chancellor Kohl and Foreign
Minister Klaus Kinkel to prevent a compulsory repatriation by the States of
Berlin, Baden-Wuerttemberg, and Bavaria.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-5>
<H1>
Sixty to seventy billion Marks in tax money wasted
</H1>
According to estimates by the tax payers association DM60m to DM70m in tax
money has been wasted in Germany last year. Income taxes could be reduced
by a quarter if the money had been saved. The president of the association,
Karl-Heinz Daehlke, documented 104 cases of wasting in his latest so-called
Black Book. Miscalculations, construction scandals, boasting, and pomposity
were carried out on the back of the tax payer. He named some examples: In
Bremen a DM8m skating arena was demolished after 13 years although there
were no damages or flaws. In Hamelin, a DM35,000 coal-tar spray machine has
been standing shrink-wrapped and unused for four years in the local road
maintenance department. The members of the Bundestag's construction and
housing committee travelled to the USA to learn about low-price housing
from American experts. At the same time a special congress on that topic
took place in Munich. The congress was attended by American experts. The
tax payers association called for a reform of the criminal code to fight
the wasting of taxes. Government employees who waste money in office should
have to pay compensation.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-6>
<H1>
Tax trial against Peter Graf continues
</H1>
In the tax case against Peter Graf his former consultant, Mr. Schmid, has
today partially used the right to refuse to give evidence. Mr. Schmid's
counsel argued that police investigate against Mr. Schmid on grounds of
aiding and abetting in tax evasion. Mr. Schmid therefore answered questions
about the alcohol and medicament consumption of tennis player Steffi Graf's
father in a closed session.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-01-7>
<H1>
Former theatre director must stand trial
</H1>
The former general manager of the Baden-Wuerttemberg state theatres,
Wolfgang Goennenwein, and his then administrative manager, Mr. Kwati (sp?),
must stand trial on grounds of budgetary fraud. The two managers are
accused of having exceeded the theatre budgets by in total DM4.3m. From
1985 to 1990 they have forwarded bills without ministerial consent to the
following year when the current year's budget had been used up. In 1991 the
Baden-Wuerttemberg government had to amend the state budget to settle the
bills. Both managers were obliged by their work contracts to run the
theatre within the given budget. Goennenwein who was forced to resign as
general manager in 1992 after serious crises in the theatre refuted the
allegation of budgetary fraud vehemently. He had created added cultural
value for the state in line with government policies. He was sure that the
Stuttgart politicians would testify in his favour in the Stuttgart Regional
Court.

