<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-1>
<H1>
Schroeder Defends Stollman Against Union Criticism
</H1>
The SPD's designated Minister of Economics, Mr. Stollman, ensured
continued controversy with his remarks on social policy.  Mr. Schroeder,
the SPD's candidate for chancellor, has rejected union criticism of
Stollman..  Only someone that measures things with a micrometer could come
up with such a critique, said Schroeder to "Der Spiegel."  Ms.
Engelen-Kefer, the acting president of the DGB [the German Federation of
Trade Unions], warned Schroeder and Stollman not to terminate the social
contract between the SPD and the DGB by streamlining social services.  Mr.
Henkel, the president of the Federation of German Industry, told the
newspaper "Die Welt" that he didn't believe Stollman could push his ideas
through the SPD.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-2>
<H1>
Festival of Thanksgiving on the Oder
</H1>
A year ago, the floodwaters of the Oder reached an all-time high, and
today the inhabitants of the Zeltendorf lowlands held a festival to
express their gratitude for being saved.  In addition to Chancellor Kohl,
thousands of people came from all over Germany who had earlier donated
money or lent a hand.  Last year on July 24th, the area was inundated
after two dikes broke.  Around 300 houses stood meter-deep under water for
approximately 3 weeks.

<P>
The mayor of Zeltendorf, Reiner Vierling, recalled those days a year ago
when the dikes burst and the lowlands were submerged.  "A year ago, even
we had almost given up.  There was water even here where we are standing.
Everywhere, there was nothing but a stinking soup out of which peered the
tops of houses and trees -- trees that were the last refuge for animals
that we still barely notice."

<P>
For Chancellor Kohl, the flood showed above all that East and West Germans
belong together.  "On this occasion, something I've long been certain of
was visible to everyone: We, all Germans, belong together, and we stick
together when it counts.  This is a truth deeply rooted in the minds of
most Germans."  The Chancellor also said that the lesson of the flood was
clear.  We should not simply trust that a flood like this will only come
around once every thousand years, he said.  We have to act now.
"Naturally, this will cost a lot of money, that's true.  But the
experience of this catastrophe, like that of so many others, has shown us
that timely precautions, while they cost money, are cheaper in the long
run than fixing the damage afterwards -- and that is not even counting the
human suffering."

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-3>
<H1>
New Charges in the Affair of the CDU Treasurer in Saxony-Anhalt
</H1>
There were new developments in the affair of Manfred Wulfert, the
[former?] CDU Treasurer in Saxony-Anhalt.  He is suspected of having
arranged a contract murder with the Russian Mafia. According to German
Midlands Radio [Mitteldeutscher Rundfunk], the party and the Federal
Interior Ministry were acquainted with the politician's financial problems
earlier than was previously thought.  In addition, a Berlin construction
business owner, Mr. Matthes, has lodged serious charges against Wulfert.
Matthes stated that he is a friend of Detlef Luchs, the intended murder
victim, as well as of the Russian who is alleged to have received the
contract.  And that is not all.  German Midlands Radio has several
documents that the Berlin businessman sent to the Federal Interior
Ministry and the national CDU secretariat.  Their contents verge on the
unbelievable.  One document, dated April 25, 1998 and addressed to the
Federal Interior Ministry, was captioned "Re: Contract Murder --
Preliminary Investigation of CDU State Representative Wulfert."  Matthes
maintains in this memo that Wulfert, his business partner, had run into a
liquidity bottleneck and had borrowed 50,000 DM from Detlef Luchs.  When
Wulfert couldn't pay the money back, he approached the Russian in order to
solve the problem another way.  Matthes says he is certain that Luchs was
supposed to be killed.  Sources close to the investigation say that on
March 29th of this year, the Russian told Wulfert over a cell phone that
he would kill Luchs for 20,000 DM.  Investigators were listening in on the
cell phone conversation, and the Russian was arrested in a country hotel.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-4>
<H1>
German Rail Confirms Planning for a New Scheduling System
</H1>
German Rail confirmed that it is planning a new scheduling system.  A
spokeswoman said that Yes, it was true that consideration was being given
to dropping strict per-kilometer pricing.  This does not mean that there
is going to be a rise or a fall in prices, she continued.  Rather, the new
prices might be adjusted according to the time in transit, the luxury
class, and the competition from planes and cars on specific routes.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-5>
<H1>
Federal Government to Subsidize Low-Wage Jobs
</H1>
The federal government is said to be introducing a new wage supplement to
relieve pressure on the labor market.  The program is called the
"Combination Wage" and will be provided to some workers from the beginning
of August, according to the Labor Ministry in Bonn.  According to "Der
Spiegel," the government wants to subsidize low-wage jobs with this
additional supplement.  The Combination Wage should give the unemployed an
incentive to take a job that pays a below-average wage.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-6>
<H1>
Siemens Develops An Air Bag For the Feet
</H1>
Siemens has developed an air bag for the feet.  It is supposed to come on
the market in two years.  The air bag will be integrated into the
automobile's floor mat.  When the car suffers a collision, the new air bag
will form a smooth cushion around the pedals.  Until now, injuries to the
feet and shins have ranked second behind injuries to the head and pelvis.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-25-7>
<H1>
Schumacher Will Start in the Second Row in Austria.
</H1>
Formula 1.  Michael Schumacher will start tomorrow in Austria in the
second row.  He only came in fourth in the qualifying heats, directly
behind his main rival, Mika Hakkinen.  Fisicella of Benetton grabbed the
pole position for the first time in his career.  In second place was Jean
Alesi.  Heinz-Harald Frentzen and Ralf Schumacher ended up in places seven
and nine.

