<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-1>
<H1>
Day of German Reunification
</H1>
The official celebration of Germany's Day of Reunification came to a
close at around 1.30 am in the assembly rooms in Wiesbaden, State Capital
of Hesse. Mr. Prodi, President of the EU Commission, stated in his last
address that the European Union was not a self serving institution, but
rather an instrument through which citizens could realize their visions.
Prodi concluded his speech in German saying "I am convinced that Germany,
as a founding member of the European Union, will play a leading role in
the Union throughout the 21st Century". Previously, Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder had thanked former President Gorbachov and the Soviet
leadership, who did hinder the former East German as well as Central and
Eastern European people's drive for freedom ten years ago. Schroeder
specifically spoke of the East Germans' courage to stand up for their
beliefs in overcoming the dictatorship of the communist party SED. The
wall was crushed from East to West, and not vice versa, according to
Schroeder. Residents of the East German states  deserved grateful thanks
and recognition for their intrepidity. However, Schroeder said that
German Unity is far from complete. He said the border between East and
West Germany may seem invisible today, but that this did not apply to
economic and social borders. Schroeder called October 3rd a day of saying
thank you to the Germans. He agreed to continuing aid to East Germany
beyond the expiration of the solidarity treaty and that the "solidarity
pact" would be renewed, although in a different form. The chancellor
conceded that there would be cutbacks in the assistance to the East.
Savings measures needed to apply to all areas. However, the support of
East Germany would remain on a higher level than in previous years.
The most prominent participants in the celebration next to Schroeder and
Prodi were President Rau, former Chancellor Kohl and Governor Koch of
Hesse, who hosted the event in his function as President of the Upper
House of Parliament.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-2>
<H1>
Convention of the Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics
</H1>
The convention of the Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics kicked
off in Hamburg at around 3 pm. As a start to the 7 day convention, Union
Vice-President Juergen Peters challenged the federal Government to
finally focus its politics on work and social justice again. He said that
saving alone did not get the unemployed off the street. Mass unemployment
paralyzed the economy and society. Fighting it was the pivot of politics,
and politicians should actively collaborate with unions in this fight,
according to the Union official. The idea of retirement at age 60, which
the unions say would create more jobs, is the central issue at this
convention that will feature Gerhard Schroeder as a guest speaker on
Wednesday.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-3>
<H1>
Oskar Lafontaine criticized
</H1>
Hamburg's mayor and social Democrat, Mr. Runde, considers Oskar
Lafontaine's criticism of the federal government tactless. He said that a
lot of the new Government's mistakes could also be accredited to Mr.
Lafontaine, since he had great influence in his function as party leader
and Finance Minister. In his book "The heart beats on the left", Mr.
Lafontaine attacks Chancellor Schroeder and other leading Social
Democrats. He wrote that the Chancellor lacks a sense of fairness and
reality. He continued that Finance Minister Mr. Eichel had managed to
upset employees, the unemployed and retirees in record time.

<P>
The chairman of the social democrats in Baden-Wuerttemberg, Mr. Vogt,
also attacked the former chief social democrat for the remarks in his
book. He said that it was bad style to retreat and then point out all the
things that need to be improved. If Mr. Lafontaine was now accusing Mr.
Schroeder of election fraud, he was also accusing himself, since he too
would have been elected by many people.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-4>
<H1>
Protection of non-smokers
</H1>
Representatives of Christian Union, Social Democrats, Greens and Free
Democrats want to enhance the protection of non-smokers at the work
place. According to the tabloid "Bildzeitung", they are working on a
proposal to divide smokers and non-smokers into separate work-shifts. The
representatives recommend changing the existing work-place ordinance.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-5>
<H1>
Accident
</H1>
A taxi cab slammed into a crowd outside the Central Railroad station in
Bremen. 15 people were injured, some of them seriously. According to
police, the cab driver had initially waited for passengers outside the
station. She then drove off and for unknown reasons lost control over her
car. During this the car accelerated and drove into the crowd.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-03-6>
<H1>
Author Heinz Konsalik is dead
</H1>
Author Heinz Konsalik is dead. This was reported by the German Press
Agency quoting his son-in-law as the source. The bestselling author died
in Salzburg at age 78 of a heart attack after a long sickness. Konsalik
had already been hospitalized for several weeks between May and July due
to diabetes. His 155 novels have reached a total circulation of 83
million. His works have been translated into 42 languages.

