<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-1>
<H1>
Summit meeting in Sarajevo
</H1>
Heads of state from 29 countries came to the summit-meeting at Sarajevo,
to agree on common efforts to rebuild the region. "We will co-operate, to
help integrate South-East Europe within our continent. Borders should not
be violated and segregation should be a thing of the past", according to a
final communique. This declaration states fundamental goals of
co-operation as far as democracy, civil rights, economic development and
security are concerned. EU Special co-ordinator Hombach would get all the
support he needed. Chancellor Schroeder emphasised in closing that no
country would be excluded as far as the treaty on stability was concerned.
Yugoslavia's leadership would discredit itself, as Mr Schroeder stressed.
Once their current regime was a thing of the past, Belgrade, too, would have
a fair chance to take part. He asked for clear guidelines how the region
should approach closer relations with the EU. Russia's head of state
Stepashin asked for democracy in Yugoslavia and help for the country. If
there was no support in winter, a humanitarian catastrophe was lurking
around the corner.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-2>
<H1>
Mr Zurwehme could be in Berlin
</H1>
Police are looking for alleged Remagen murderer Dieter Zurwehme in Berlin
now. This afternoon, approximately 300 police started to search the
Grunewald. A spokesperson said that they had received a hint that appeared
to be credible: a jogger claimed to have recognised the man. The jogger had
come very close to the suspect and was considered to be very reliable. At
this stage there was no indication how long the search would take.
Previously, police had lost track of Mr Zurwehme near Hanover

<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-3>
<H1>
Union president Schulte criticises Mr Schroeder
</H1>
Union president Schulte once again sharply criticised Chancellor
Schroeder's economic policies. In an interview with the newspaper LEIPZIGER
VOLKSZEITUNG, he said it would be unrealistic to take everything from the
workers while letting the other side go totally scot-free. He said that
Mr Schroeder was in Economics Minister Mueller's pocket. The latter's
economic report contained ideas that the ministry's staff had not dared
publish even when liberal Mr Rexroth, FDP, had still been in charge. He
also criticised that concentrating on the "New Centre" would mean that many
would fall by the wayside, left and right.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-4>
<H1>
Bavaria's opposition parties want commission of enquiry into LWS-affair
</H1>
Bavaria's opposition wants a commission of enquiry to check out if head of
state Stoiber was also responsible for the millions of marks the LWS lost.
SPD and Greens stated that Mr Stoiber's role when he became head of state
in 1993, would have to be looked into. Government did not give clear answers
to questions about running down the state-owned construction company. For
the first time, Mr Stoiber refuted claims that he personally was responsible
for errors committed by the LWS.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-5>
<H1>
Sinti and Roma demonstrate for memorial in Berlin
</H1>
The Central Committee of Sintis and Romas (often lumped together as
'gypsies'), set up a plaque near the Berlin Reichstag, to emphasise their
demand for a memorial for the members murdered by the Nazis. Their president
Rose said that there were explicit commitments for that by Berlin's Senate.
Mr Rose: "We won't let our victims get treated with disrespect and pushed
around". Previously the Senate had declared that there had been no official
promise/commitment.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-30-6>
<H1>
EU-Commission: change voting procedures for EU-citizens
</H1>
The EU-Commission is taking on the German government, as they believe that
EU-citizens are discriminated against in elections for the European as well
as local parliaments. In Brussels the EU-Commission asked Germany to come up
with a satisfactory explanation, and in case they did not, they would take
the matter to the European Court in Luxembourg. The point is that
EU-citizens have to register to get on the electoral roll before voting,
whereas there was no need for German citizens, as they automatically were on
the electoral roll. This would amount to discrimination.

