<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-1>
<H1>
Ignatz Bubis dead
</H1>
A special Lufthansa flight has delivered the body of Ignatz Bubis to Tel
Aviv today. The president of the German Central Jewish Council, who died on
Friday, was taken to the Kiriyat Shaul cemetery in Tel Aviv and interred, in
the late afternoon, beside five Israeli athletes killed in the 1972 attack
on the Israeli Olympic team in Munich. Bubis' will specified that he wished
to be buried in Israel; he feared that in Germany his grave could become the
target of right-wing vandals. At the funeral, Germany will be represented by
Federal President Johannes Rau, Bundesrat President Roland Koch, and Federal
Internal Affairs Minister Otto Schily. Rau honoured Bubis as a man of
reconciliation and balance. He said of Bubis' fear of the desecration of his
grave in Germany that it should serve as a warning against the prospect of
anyone feeling it necessary to voice those words ever again. Rau added,
however, that he viewed it as an error to conclude that Jews could not live
in Germany; in fact, he continued, Bubis' life provided the clearest
counter-example to that notion.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-2>
<H1>
Right-wing rally forbidden
</H1>
The Thuringian police have prevented a rally of the right-wing NPD in
Eisenach. The City of Eisenach had also forbidden the rally. The City's
official reason for the ban was that the neo-Nazis wanted to misuse the
rally to celebrate the death of the president of the German Jewish Central
Council, Ignatz Bubis. Police took several NPD members into custody.
In the state of Hesse, police prevented several neo-Nazi rallies on the
anniversary of the death of Hitler's second-in-command, Rudolf Hess.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-3>
<H1>
Sunday shopping in Berlin
</H1>
Thousands of people have made their way to an opportunity for Sunday
shopping in Berlin. Masses of people have been thronging the Kaufhof
department store at Alexanderplatz square since noon. The store organized a
'fountain fete', obviously making use of a Berlin regulation allowing
businesses to open on Sundays for public festivals. Store management has
said that sales were significantly higher than expected, and 50 percent
higher than on typical workdays. Festivals are also underway in other parts
of the city, merchants on Potsdamer Platz square and in the district of
Tegel reporting lively interest on the part of the public.
The municipal governments of Leipzig and Halle have also allowed hundreds of
shopkeepers to open for business today. The mayor of Halle, Klaus-Peter
Rauen, judged the day a success.
Unions and churches continue to oppose Sunday shopping. The Retail, Banking,
and Insurance Union (HBV) spoke of a violation of the law. The Catholic
Bishop of Trier, Josef Spital, said that it is not primarily a question of
faith, but of whether people really wanted to restrict their opportunities
to meet each other, in the family, groups, or associations.
In the coming week, the courts will have their say. The Superior
Administrative Courts in Bautzen and Magdeburg will decide whether the
special permissions for Sunday openings issued in Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt
were legally valid.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-4>
<H1>
Fraud scandal at the public BBV insurance company in Bavaria
</H1>
The fraud scandal at the Bavarian state public-servant insurance company,
BBV, continues to widen in its repercussions. The spokesman for the Bavarian
Justice Ministry, Gerhard Zierl, today confirmed a report in the
Munich-based newsmagazine 'Focus'. The report states that the offices of one
more BBV executive and three partners of the company were searched over the
weekend. All four are suspected of having misappropriated up to 22 million
DM. The real estate scandal is so far centered primarily on the sale of an
office building belonging to the Ministry for Economic Cooperation in Bonn.
In that deal, BBV chairman Klaus Dieter Schweickert is thought to have
received a kick-back of 3 million DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-5>
<H1>
Tolerance Prize of the City of Muenster
</H1>
The moderate leader of the Kosovo Albanians, Ibrahim Rugova, has been
awarded the City of Muenster's Tolerance Prize, worth 50,000 DM. In
presenting the award, the Vice-President of the Bundestag, Antje Vollmer,
said that Rugova was chosen to be honoured for his consistent engagement for
a non-violent solution to his people's conflict. At the same time, Vollmer
criticized the Western governments for not having supported the non-violent
movement in Kosovo. Rugova sent a friend to represent him at the ceremony.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-15-6>
<H1>
Racing: Formula 1
</H1>
Mika Haekkinen of Finland has won the Hungarian Grand Prix. The win leaves
the World Champion only two points behind current Formula 1 leader Eddie
Irvine, who finished third today, behind David Coulthard. Heinz-Harald
Frentzen came in fourth, which ties him with Coulthard at third place in the
overall Formula 1 rankings.

