<DOC de-news-1999-03-31-1>
<H1>
Intensity of the military onslaught in Kosovo will increase
</H1>
General Naumann, chairman of NATO's military committee, ruled out a
suspension of military action against Yugoslavia over Easter. It
would be inhuman to consider such a thing, said Naumann this evening
from Brussels. A break in the hostilities would be license for
Serbian President Milosevic to continue his campaign of murder and
expulsion. Naumann admitted that the attacks by the alliance would
not prevent Serbian police units from pursuing Kosovars. They can
however destroy military targets from the air. Yesterday, the NATO
council authorized General Clarke, the European Commander-in-Chief, to
increase the intensity of military strikes against targets in
Yugoslavia. From Washington, US government spokesperson Lockhardt
said Belgrade's policy of ethnic cleansing has placed Kosovo's status
vis-a-vis Serbia increasingly in question. He made it clear that the
American President continues to oppose the use of ground troops. In
Kosovo, the systematic expulsion of the Albanian population continues.
According to NATO reports, Serbian police have been firing on refugees
with heavy weapons. Eye witnesses report mass deportations to the
border. The alliance has accused the Serbian armed forces of
targeting birth and residence records of the Albanian population for
destruction. At the Macedonian border today, the arriving refugees
were still being processed slowly. According to statements by Deputy
Foreign Minister Verheugen, the atrocities in Kosovo were carefully
planned in advance by Yugoslav President Milosevic. Verheugen, at a
press conference in the Albanian capital of Tirana, said he saw no
alternative to continuing the air attacks. Demonstrations welcoming
NATO military action took place in Bonn, Duesseldorf and Stuttgart.
Altogether about 6000 Albanians took part in the demonstrations.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-31-2>
<H1>
Greens plan special party congress to assess Kosovo situation
</H1>
An increasing number of voices in the Green party are supporting an
end to the NATO air attacks in Yugoslavia. According to Member of the
Bundestag Stroebele, the spokesperson for the North Rhine-Westphalia
regional party council, Stephens (sp?), has also called for an end to
the bombing. According to Stroebele, there are initiatives in four
regional party organizations calling for a special party congress
regarding Kosovo. Approximately 500 party members have already signed
an appeal opposing the war. Green Party Secretary General
Buettighofer, interviewed in the newspaper "Berliner Morgenpost", said
the party leadership would not oppose a party congress if a major
portion of the party is in favor. Buettighofer also said such a
meeting should not be pushed through in opposition to the party
executive committee.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-31-3>
<H1>
First charges resulting from Kurdish riots in Berlin
</H1>
The public prosecutor's office brought in the first charges stemming
from the Kurdish riots in Berlin during February. A total of eight
men who are alleged to have taken part in storming the Israeli embassy
must answer for themselves in court. Additional Kurds are under
investigation. All those who have been charged are being detained.
Israeli security officers shot four Kurds during the attempt to gain
entry to the embassy. Through their actions on February 17th, the
demonstrators wanted to protest the abduction of Kurdish People's
Party (PKK) chief Ocalan and his deportation to Turkey.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-31-4>
<H1>
Mueller discusses tax reform with power companies
</H1>
Economic Minister Mueller met in Bonn with the executive committees of
four power companies to discuss the effects of the tax reform on the
nuclear power generation industry. The discussion concerned the
financial burdens on the enterprises resulting from the new back taxes
on the industry's large cash reserves. Prior to the meeting, both
sides reaffirmed their differing positions on the issue. Mueller
feels the industries claim that they will have to pay 25 billion DM in
extra taxes in years to come to be exaggerated. On the other hand,
Viag head Simson made the continuation of the discussion dependent on
the readiness of the government to make some definite changes.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-31-5>
<H1>
Subsidies for BMW/Rover
</H1>
The BMW automobile company of Munich and the British government have
agreed in principle on support for Rover, an English subsidiary of
BMW. British Prime Minister Tony Blair announced from London that
Minister of Industry Byers and BMW head Milberg have also come to an
agreement on the level of the subsidies. According to a spokesperson
for BMW, the subsidies have ensured that production of a new model of
the Rover will take place in Longbridge. The parties involved have
agreed to keep the amount of subsidies under wraps. According to BMW,
it must still be approved by the company's executive committee as well
as by the EU. The automaker has previously threatened to move future
production of the Rover line of autos to Hungary. If that had happened,
almost 10,000 Rover employees in Longbridge would have lost their jobs.

