<DOC de-news-1998-03-06-1>
<H1>
Unemployed persons protest
</H1>
Mass unemployment rates remained unchanged in January. Although
there was a slight improvement in the West, in the East
unemployment rose. The number of unemployed fell slightly in
Bavaria. At the same time, unemployment activists called for a
one day general protest action against mass unemployment. The
response was rather subdued. The feeling is that
there is little reason for hope and political activities in
Bonn have practically ground to a halt. Everybody appears to be
busy preparing for the upcoming elections and hardly any decision
are being taken. Klaus Zwickel, boss of the union for metal,
engineering and electronics said in Aschaffenburg that nothing
decisive could be expected to happen until after the Bundestag
elections.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-06-2>
<H1>
Euro speeches
</H1>
There was a Bundestag debate today on recent agreements intended
to further European Union integration. One of the main themes was
the planned European monetary union. Minister for Finance Theo
Waigel reaffirmed that the Euro is going to be a stable currency
in Europe. Wolfgang Schaeuble, leader of the union parties,
appealed to all politicians to help people overcome their fear
of the new currency.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-06-3>
<H1>
First coalition defeat in Bundestag vote
</H1>
There was a lot of bad feeling following the first coalition defeat
in a Bundestag vote. Rumor would have it that FDP, the liberal
coalition partner, was trying to put up a pre-election show of
independence of the majority Union parties. The leader of the FDP
faction, Solms, denied this to have been a tactical scheme.
Although it was said the coalition was not endangered, there were
very long faces in tonight's special session of the CDU/CSU factions.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl was said to be "terribly angry". But however
annoying the fact of the defeat might be, said faction leader
Wolfgang Schaeuble, the coalition is firmly in place and the
agreements about unchangeable majorities are still in force.
The SPD social democrats are accused by the Union parties of
breaking agreements worked out together with the coalition and
voting with the extreme left-wing PDS to obtain an anti-government
vote. Schaeuble said he was now convinced that pending the result
of the fall elections SPD would team up with PDS.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-06-4>
<H1>
Bavaria to vote against subsidy for Eastern health insurance
</H1>
Bavaria's state premier Stoiber will not agree to financial aid
for ailing East German public health insurance agencies. He comes
out for an overall redistribution of state financial means in the
East and elsewhere. In a concerted action with Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Bavaria will vote against the law favoring Eastern insurance
agencies, notwithstanding the fact that this law was worked out
and presented by the CSU's minister for health Seehofer. The law
provides for pumping DM 1.2 billion a year into the weak Eastern
insurance agencies for three years starting 1999. The extreme
weakness of the agencies is due mainly to the extremely high
unemployment rates in the region, which make for a contribution
deficit to the tune of several billion DM. In view of this fact,
Seehofer holds that the proposal is an unavoidable act of solidarity.
Stoiber and his state minister for welfare Ms. Stamm agree to the
financial aid part in principle, but want to use this as an occasion
to provide general regionalisation of social security agencies.
They want to have a more competitive situation as of 2002 allowing
states such as Bavaria to lower their contribution levels. The
Bundestag will approve the law against the votes of Bavaria's and
Baden-Wuerttemberg's representatives.

