<DOC de-news-1999-05-15-1>
<H1>
Schroeder warns the Greens
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder warned the Greens not to make any far-reaching
demands on the SPD in the wake of their compromise decision on the war
in Kosovo. The result would not be a new willingness to move forward on
Green pet projects. Schroeder told "Focus" magazine that the Green party
conference motion represented a turning point for the Greens and
progress for Germany. However, the Greens would not earn any bonus
points for having finally made it.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-15-2>
<H1>
Commotion about Trittin's possible move to Brussels
</H1>
The head of the federal Green Party, Gunda Roestel, has rejected
speculation that Juergen Trittin, the Minister of the Environment, would
be moving to Brussels.  Instead she suggested Michaele Schreyer, the
leader of the parliamentary group in Berlin, might be proposed as an EU
commissioner. "The central committee will decide on Monday that we need
a woman," said Roestel.  She said that Trittin will definitely not be
proposed as an EU commissioner.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-15-3>
<H1>
Renate Schmidt to remain Bavarian SPD state chairman
</H1>
This afternoon, the state SPD party conference confirmed the 55 year old
Renate Schmidt in office by a large majority -- and for the last time,
since she will step down some time in the next two years. Although
Renate Schmidt has been responsible for massive organizational and
structural changes over the last 8 years, and has criticized the party,
it did not begrudge her its support. Re-elected with 90% of the vote,
Schmidt called on the party to make another push, to get over its roll
as bearer of the true faith and to reform itself from the inside out.
Ms. Schmidt will step down in 2001, but will remain the acting federal
party chief until then. As such, she has defended the leading proposal
of the state party regarding the government's Kosovo policy.  Eliciting
enormous criticism from Chancellor Schroeder, this proposal calls for an
immediate, temporary and supervised cease fire by NATO in the Balkans.

<P>
Approximately 100 Young Socialists and other left-wing members of the
party put forth proposals that go farther in demanding an end to the
intervention of NATO and the German Army in Kosovo. Many of them wore
buttons that said "NATO Out of Kosovo."  But Renate Schmidt warned
against descending into internecine warfare and said the Bavarian SPD
had to guard against the impression that they were stabbing the
government in the back over its Kosovo policy. "The Chancellor and the
Defense Minister have worked themselves to the edge of exhaustion and
are always struggling hard to come to the right decision.  I will come
down hard and decisively on anyone that dares to call Gerhard Schroeder
or Rudolf Scharping war-mongers or anything of that sort.  It's not
right and it won't be stood for."  At bottom, Schmidt said there had to
be more party discipline and more loyalty shown the government. She
warned that those who refused to follow and show solidarity with their
representatives in Bonn would in the long run render them incapable of
action.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-15-4>
<H1>
Bavarian teachers discuss initiating referendum
</H1>
The members of the Bavarian Teachers Association (the BLLV) want to put
to a vote whether they should initiate a referendum against extending
the non-college preparatory high school program to 6 grades.  The BLLV
is in favor of four year of elementary schooling followed by two more
years of differentiated studies. The state government of Bavaria, on the
other hand, now plans for students to make the transition into secondary
school after the fourth grade.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-15-5>
<H1>
The high water level eases a bit in South Germany
</H1>
The high water mark on the Donau reached over five meters in Regensburg
this afternoon.  Experts generally believe that the worst is past.  On
the upper Rhine, at any rate, the situation has stabilized.  It's still
touchand go in Switzerland.

