<DOC de-news-1998-11-01-1>
<H1>
Floods expected in Germany
</H1>
After more rain, the flood situation has again worsened . Reports say that
water levels are rising of rivers in northern Bavaria. The Bavarian Office
for Water Affairs warns that there might be a second flood wave on the
rivers Main and Saale. Inhabitants of the town of Bad Neustadt in Lower
Franconia have been advised to leave their houses if levels continue to
rise. In Wuerzburg, the high tide of the Main is expected at 9 pm [Sunday].

<P>
The situation on the Rhine and Mosel rivers is also critical. Water levels
are rising by the hour and the rivers are closed for ships. Parts of the
city of Koblenz are still flooded. Experts advise people who live close to
the Rhine in Cologne to rescue their possessions. Water levels are expected
to rise to more than nine meters during the night. If levels reach ten
meters, Cologne's historical town center will be flooded. In Trier on the
river Mosel, cellars in the lower lying parts of the city are already under
water. Floods are anticipated in Wertheim (Baden-Wuerttemberg), which is
where the Main and Tauber rivers meet. Authorities expect that as from
about 9 pm water levels will rise above the protective walls into the
historical city center which has 3000 inhabitants. The state of alarm in
Baden-Baden has been canceled. In Lower Saxony, Bavaria and North
Rhine-Westphalia, four children ages two to five are thought to have
drowned in the flood waters. A storm with winds up to 110 kilometers per
hour caused severe damage in Bavaria. Fallen trees and ripped off branches
held up traffic.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-01-2>
<H1>
Differences between Schroeder and the Central Bank
</H1>
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine
plan to respect the independence of the Central Bank. At the same time,
they criticized the interest policy of the Central Bank. Mr. Schroeder
remarked that the Central Bank is charged not only with maintaining the
stability of the German mark's value, but that it has responsibility for
economic growth and employment as well.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-01-3>
<H1>
Lutheran Church Synod
</H1>
The ninth synod of the Lutheran Church of Germany has been opened with a
festive service in the Apostel's church in Muenster. Pastor Sorg, chairman
of the Westphalian Church Community, commemorated the end of the 30 year
war in 1648 in his sermon. Mr. Sorg demanded that Christians should always
be agents of peace. Mr. Kock, President of the Lutheran Church Council,
said that the church performs important services for society. He warned of
a mental vacuum that arises from apathy and that if structures have broken
down, it is difficult to connect back to things that proved useful in the
past. Therefore, Mr. Kock said, it is time for people to rejoin the church.
Mr. Kock also rejected reproaches that the Lutheran Church is the church of
the Social Democratic Party (SPD). Mr. Kock said that the church is a
complicated pluralistic fabric. It is wrong to put it into a party
political box. This was a reaction to criticism from the church's own ranks
who had threatened to leave the church. In the beginning of the event, the
new Minister of Education Mrs. Buhlmann spoke, too. She demanded that the
participants in the synod help with the Coalition for Work. The church can
bring its experiences and propositions regarding the fight against
unemployment to the table.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-01-4>
<H1>
Formula 1
</H1>
Mika Hakkinen has won the Grand Prix of Japan for the first time. With 100
points, the McLaren-Mercedes pilot beat Michael Schumacher in his Ferrari
who only had 86 points. For Mercedes, this is the first world championship
title in 43 years. Schumacher was twice unlucky in Suzuka. First, he choked
off the motor of his Ferrari at the start and was put from the first to the
last place according to the rules. After a furious chase to catch up, he
had to retire from the race in round 32 of 53 because of a tire problems.

