<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-1>
<H1>
Kohl wants to lead CDU to Bundestag Election
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Kohl has expressed his determination to lead
the CDU to the Bundestag election on September 27th. At the
Rheinland-Pfalz CDU party conference, Mr. Kohl stated that he will not
be leaving his chancellor position. The delegates once again almost
unanimously voted Mr. Kohl to be the CDU chancellor candidate for
Rheinland-Pfalz. Mr. Necker, Vice President of the Federal Association
of German Industry, called to the chancellor to name the date on which
union faction head Schaeuble would take over the office of chancellor.
In an interview with the newspaper Die Zeit, Mr. Necker said that the
change in the office must occur by January 1, 2000. In addition, CDU
opposition leaders in Lower Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt, Mr. Wulff and Mr.
Bergner recommended that the CDU not concentrate all of its energies on
Kohl.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-2>
<H1>
Merkel disagrees with CDU on gas prices
</H1>
Federal Minister of the Environment Merkel has stated that the proposal
to gradually raise gasoline prices to 5 marks per liter is a good
starting point. Yesterday, CDU General Secretary Hintze announced a
campaign to fight against the gas price increase supported by the
Greens. The CDU is divided in questions on the environment. Ms. Merkel
opined that it would be counterproductive for the Greens to make the
increase to 5 marks per liter a part of the election campaign. This
would spell the end to a good working idea. She expressed her
frustration that a discussion about tighter controls on essential
resources had been made virtually impossible. Ms. Merkel told the
newspaper Berliner Zeitung, The Greens are not helping the cause but are
rather frightening people away.

<P>
Mr. Hintze launched his campaign yesterday, attracting a great deal of
press interest. Don't let yourself be tapped is the motto of the
campaign, which will begin next week. The CDU wants to set up
information stands at around 11,000 gas stations, pass out bumper
stickers, and warn drivers that the Greens are out to make driving
unpleasant. The Auto Club of Europe (ACE) has described this campaign as
a blatant attempt to curry favor with voters. ACE spokesperson Mr.
Hingaertner stated that the EU would like to reduce the per kilometer
cost. This measure would cost working people more than 4.2 billion
marks. Those who want to cost drivers so much money is not really
serving the interest of the people and should step aside instead, he
concluded.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-3>
<H1>
Discussions on EU treaty concluded
</H1>
Discussions between the German government and Bavaria on the EU
Amsterdam Treaty have come to an end. The Bavarian state government is
withdrawing its protest against the treaty, which, among other things,
addresses immigration into the EU. This is how the issue is seen by
members of the CDU in the Bundestag. The threats from Munich have
evidently had an effect on the conflict within the coalition in terms of
the Amsterdam Treaty. Mr. Stoiber said on Bavarian television that Free
State of Bavaria will withdraw its protest against the treaty in the
Bundesrat. A letter made this possible. I have been informed by Federal
Minister Bohl that Chancellor Kohl has sent a letter to the council
president, Tony Blair which asserts that our law is binding. This refers
to the ruling that the admission of foreigners on the German job market
and local public assistance benefits must be decided on the national
level. Attorneys are yet to determine whether the letter Chancellor Kohl
sent to council president Blair is binding under international law.

<P>
The national government now has to deal with the fact that Mr. Stoiber
has implemented his plan. At the beginning of the week, he threatened to
topple all discussion of the Amsterdam Treaty unless Bavaria's position
was incorporated. Foreign Minister Kinkel argued that such protests
should have occurred much earlier, before the Amsterdam Treaty was
signed. The Amsterdam Treaty establishes the conditions that will allow
the European Union to achieve reforms and to expand to Eastern Europe.
Plans are also being made to standardize the EU policy on refugees and
immigrants.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-4>
<H1>
Consultations about new EU admissions
</H1>
The foreign ministers of the European Union are meeting in Scotland in
part to discuss the admission of new members. One of the candidates of
the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. Matters are complicated by the fact
that there are two population groups, Greeks and Turks, and that the
latter consider themselves a separate state. We are in complete
agreement, stated the spokesperson for the French delegation. Paris also
no longer has any objections. Talks on EU expansion should begin at the
end of the month if there are no restrictions or other problems, German
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel asserted.

<P>
After a consensus was reached, it was only a question of whether France
would agree. French Foreign Minister Hubert Negry needs to consult with
French President Jacques Chirac. Paris had stressed its position that it
wanted the Turkish-inhabited Northern part of the island to take part in
the negotiations.

<P>
Athens, on the other hand, wanted them not to be represented. The Greek
foreign minister said a reasonable compromise had been reached. At the
Europe Conference in London, President of Cyprus Lafkos Gerides offered
the Turkish citizens more seats as part of the negotiation delegation.

<P>
The Turkish leader had previously rejected such proposals. Mr. Kinkel
attributes these difficulties to a general animosity between the EU and
Turkey. He felt that Edinburgh was not the place to repeat his comments
on recent statements of Turkish Premier Yilmaz.

<P>
In addition to Cypus, the EU has invited Estonia, Poland, Slovenia, the
Czech Republic and Hungary to take part in admission negotiations.
Ankara has threatened to strengthen the ties between northern Cyprus and
Turkey.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-5>
<H1>
Demonstrations in Saalfeld
</H1>
Leftist and right-wing groups have begun demonstrations in the
East Thuringia town of Saalfeld, under surveillance of several thousand
police officers. Before the event began, police ordered several people
to leave the demonstration, arrested several right-wing extremists, and
confiscated baseball bats and brass knuckles.

<P>
Police expected up to 6,000 leftist demonstrators to counterbalance the
right extremists. According to the organizers of the demonstration,
security measures permitted only about 800 people to participate.
Violent conflicts are a distinct possibility, fear police. Mr. Bubis,
President of the Central Committee for Jewish Affairs in Germany,
demanded in a radio interview that right extremist demonstrations should
be prohibited when they only serve as a provocation. Mr. Bubis added
that it is a question how much provocation the state is willing to take.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-6>
<H1>
Toepfer allegedly given 480,000 DM for expenses
</H1>
Mr. Toepfer, former Federal Construction Minister Toepfer is
believed to have received 480,000 DM from the federal government as an
expense allowance before transferring to the UN. The newspaper Bild am
Sonntag issued a report on Mr. Toepfer after conducting an interview
with him. Until now, the highest compensation was a lump sum of 120,000
marks from the money saved from taxes. According to Bild, this payment
was intended to cover the difference in monthly salary between civil
servant post and a position at the UN for a period of four years. Mr.
Toepfer will hold a press conference to address this payment on Monday.
He told Bild am Sonntag that he was actually saving tax payers money
because the pension he would receive as a retired minister would be
calculated with his salary as the UN environmental program director.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-14-7>
<H1>
Friedrick-Karl Flick turns himself in
</H1>
The billionaire Friedrich-Karl Flick has apparently turned himself in to
tax authorities. The magazine Der Spiegel reports that the former
industrialist had not reported 150 million marks in taxable revenue. In
turning himself in, Mr. Flick wanted to act before the district
attorney.

<P>
In Germany, one usually associates the name Friedrich-Karl Flick with
the German donorgate. In the seventies, Mr. Flick's company donated
over 25 million marks to Germany's major parties. He himself accepted no
personal responsibility for the incidents. This case has proven to be
different. The 71 year old turned himself in to government finance
officials. The Dusseldorf district attorney stated that Mr. Flick snuck
150 million marks past the government.

<P>
The former industrialist, who sold his company over ten years ago, runs
two foundation endowments in Liechtenstein into which he could have
diverted the funds. It has not been decided whether the tax authorities
will accept Mr. Flick s self-denunciation. He has not yet indicated
what was done with the money. This is the prerequisite for an exemption
from punishment. If his self-denunciation is rejected, Mr. Flick must
stand charges for tax evasion.

