<DOC de-news-1998-06-20-1>
<H1>
Right-wing extremist demonstration in Berlin
</H1>
 The capital was the staging ground for a controversial protest
march by the extreme right-wing NPD party this morning.  300 mostly
juvenile participants marched through the streets demanding that jobs be
given to Germans first.  They were escorted by a heavy police force.
Simultaneously, the left-of-center parties SPD, PDS and The Greens held a
teach-in against racism at the Brandenburg Gate.  Following this session,
church groups, unions and student associations launched a star march
through Berlin under the motto "Stand up for a New Policy."  The organizers
expected tens of thousands to take part.  [A star march is a protest march
where people march in from 6 or 7 different starting points and meet in a
central spot.  The first such marches took place against rearmament in the
1950's.]

<DOC de-news-1998-06-20-2>
<H1>
D-Mark turns 50
</H1>
 On the eve of the introduction of the Euro, Bundesbank
President Tietmeyer drew special attention to the importance of the German
Mark and the Bundesbank.  At a ceremony on the occasion of the 50th
anniversary of the German Mark, held in Frankfurt's Paulskirche, Mr.
Tietmeyer praised both the international reputation of the German currency
and the independence of the German Federal Bank as exemplary.  The main
speech at the event was given by Chancellor Kohl.  On June 20, 1948, the
Western Allies introduced the D-Mark into the west German territories under
their control.  This event was key for the German post-war development, as
the new currency sparked the "economic miracle."  Chancellor Helmut Kohl
voiced optimism that the Euro stands at the beginning of the same sort of
success story that has marked the D-Mark's last 50 years.  He expressed
understanding for the fact that many Germans are awaiting the introduction
of the Euro on January 1, 1999 with mixed feelings.  The fears and concerns
of the people must be taken very seriously, the Chancellor said.  But, he
continued, the coming of the Euro has nothing to do with devaluation or a
currency reform.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-20-3>
<H1>
Germany recalls Ambassador from Belarus
</H1>
 Germany has recalled its Ambassador to Belarus.  In addition,
the Belarussian Ambassador to Germany has been asked to leave the country.
According to the Foreign Office, this is Foreign Minister Kinkel's reaction
to forced interventions by the Belarussian Government.  The authorities in
Minsk earlier blocked access to the residences of Western Ambassadors and
cut off their electricity and water.  The USA already recalled their
ambassador yesterday.  Several other European ambassadors are set to leave
Minsk on Monday.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-20-4>
<H1>
Constitutional Complaint against Fiscal Federalism criticized
</H1>
The heads of government of Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg have reiterated
their resolution to file a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional
Court in Karlsruhe against fiscal federalism, a system of compensatory
payments from richer to poorer states.  The heads of government say that
the current system is unfair and puts well-off states at too much of a
disadvantage.  The state of Hesse, governed by Social Democrats, intends to
join the complaint as well.

<P>
However, this undertaking has been met with sharp criticism even from
within the CDU/CSU.  The head of the CDU parliamentary group of the
Saarland, Mr.  Mueller, has called the complaint unreasonable, since 90 per
cent of the payments go to the New States of former East Germany.
Furthermore, Mr. Mueller added, Bavaria itself received funds under fiscal
federalism for 35 years.  North-Rhine Westphalia has also opposed the move,
even though it was the biggest payer last year, contributing DM 9 billion
towards the common fund.  However, Finance Minister of North-Rhine
Westphalia Schleusser does say that modifications to the system are
necessary.  But despite that, he views the complaint as legally dubious and
politically mistaken.  In the interest of all states, a compromise should
be found.  After stating this, Mr. Schleusser put a proposal on the table
to have a preliminary study done.  The experts' findings should clarify if
it might not be sufficient to lift financially weaker states to 95% of the
average state economic level.  Under current regulations, they have to be
raised to 100% of the average level.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-20-5>
<H1>
Another 25,000 apprentice positions before year's end
</H1>
 The umbrella organization of German craft and trade businesses is
intent on creating another 25,000 apprentice positions by the end of the
year.  This was announced by the association's president, Mr. Philipp, in a
newspaper interview with "Bild am Sonntag."  At the same time, he strictly
opposes the levying of punitive fees on companies that do not train
apprentices.  This would impose additional burdens, and unfairly hit
companies that are willing to employ apprentices, but are unable to find
qualified applicants.

