<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-1>
<H1>
Union Opposition to the SPD Shadow Minister of Economics
</H1>
Jost Stollmann is having a hard time of it.  The 43 year old entrepreneur is
supposed to become Minister of Economics if the Social Democrats win the
federal election in fall.  At least that is the wish of Mr. Schroeder, the
SPD's candidate for chancellor, and Mr. Lafontaine, the party chief.  But
opposition to the nonpartisan Stollmann has been present from the beginning
in the SPD, and now criticism is coming from the unions.  After a meeting of
the DGB Federal Executive Board ["DGB" is the umbrella organization of
German Trade Unions], DGB chief Schulte reportedly promised to try and get
Schroeder and Lafontaine to pull Stollmann from the shadow cabinet.  This
was reported by the newspaper "Bild am Sonntag."  The chairman of the
Industrial Union of Construction, Agricultural and Environmental Workers,
Klaus Wiesehuegel, called on Stollmann to step down himself.  According to
the news magazine "Focus", Wiesehuegel said he had fundamental doubts about
Stollmanns' qualifications to be Minister of Economics.  Wiesehuegel said it
was quite possible for a man to be an outstanding entrepreneur and a bad
politician at the same time.  The thinking of the DGB executive board
members is to at least prevent Stollmann from being assigned the portfolio of
technology as well.

<P>
What really irritates the unions about Stollmann is that they feel his
statements about the "Alliance for Jobs," about sick pay and about codetermination pulled the rug out from under the DGB's campaign to bring
about a political change on Bonn.  As a union chairman told "Bild am
Sonntag," "We didn't spend eight million marks in order to get an economics
minister that doesn't share our goals."

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-2>
<H1>
Kinkel: Yugoslavia Should Become a Member of the CSCE
</H1>
In the search for a solution to the conflict in Kosovo, Federal Foreign
Minister Kinkel has suggested that the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) should get more involved.  Kinkel's plan is
propose to Yugoslavia to become a member of the CSCE, in which case they
would have to accept the organization's mission in Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-3>
<H1>
Schaeuble Warns of the Break-Up of the CDU/CSU
</H1>
Wolfgang Schaeuble seems to be worried about the parties in the governing
coalition.  In an interview with the magazine "Focus," the chief of the
CDU/CSU parliamentary group explained that first of all, he was
concentrating on the CDU/CSU ("the Union") winning the election.  But
Schaeuble is wondering publicly what will become of the Union after
September 27th if they lose.  In that case, it can't be ruled out that
CDU/CSU might break up.  He declared himself unconditionally in favor of
preserving the Union as a party that integrates the broad German center.  He
said that this is of enormous importance for the stability of Germany.  A
dissolution of the Union into several middle-class groupings must in any
case be avoided.  This, he continued, would only strengthen parties on the
left and right ends of the spectrum.

<P>
Schaeuble indicated that the upcoming campaign should be more strongly
issue-oriented.  With regard to the Union's controversial so-called "red
hands campaign," Schaeuble said that certain kinds of posters are
appropriate for the early, mobilizing stages of a campaign, but this could
not bear the main weight of their electoral efforts.  For that, he said, the
Union needs issues.  By this means, Schaeuble intends to make the Social
Democrats come up empty-handed in the coming election.  In his opinion,
questions of political substance will prove fatal for SPD.  In an internal
memo he sent out months ago, Schaeuble had already urged the CDU and the CSU
to change their tactics and to put more emphasis on real issues.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-4>
<H1>
The Organization of Expellees Highlight Polish-German Differences
</H1>
Seldom before have Polish-German relations been as friendly as in recent
times.  To be sure, a shadow was cast over this harmony by the resolution
passed by the Polish parliament yesterday, which sharply criticized the
Bundestags' statement on Germans who had been expelled from Poland.  Now the
Organization of Expellees is pouring more oil on the fire.  A spokesman for
the foreign ministry told the Stuttgart newspaper "Sonntag Aktuell" that the
Organization of Expellees is damaging German foreign policy.  He said that
the demands of Erika Steinbach, a CDU representative in the Bundestag and
President of the Organization of Expellees, were irresponsible and were
poisoning the atmosphere.  Steinbach had called yesterday's decision of the
Polish parliament incomprehensible, and had said that if Poland acted like
this, it would not be able to join Europe.  The expellees accuse the
government of not doing enough on their behalf.  They demand their original
properties back or payment for damages.  The May 29th resolution of the
Bundestag did not go that far, even if the Polish parliament saw ambiguities
and "dangerous tendencies" in it.  In the Bonn resolution, which passed with
the votes of the governing coalition, the expulsion of Germans after the
second world war was described as a violation of international law.  It was
further stated that in the course of the extension of the European Union,
the expellees would be free to settle again in Poland and the Czech
Republic.  Karl Lamers, the foreign policy spokesman for the CDU/CSU,
attempted to lessen tensions.  He told the "Neuer Osnabruecker Zeitung" that
he was optimistic that relations between the two countries would not suffer
and that there would not be any effects on the negotiations concerning
Poland's entrance into the EU.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-5>
<H1>
Greens Want To Introduce a Federal Speed Limit
</H1>
After the discussion about a 30 km/h speed limit in inner cities, the Greens
are going one step farther.  In case of a red-greed coalition after the
election, they want to introduce a general speed limit on freeways.
According to the party's transport policy spokeswoman, 100 kilometers per
hour should be the highest speed allowed.  Outside of that, the Greens and
Alliance 90 are demanding a per kilometer tax for commercial trucks.  Gila
Altmann, spokesperson for the Greens, told the "Hannoverschen Neuen Presse"
that these measures are aimed at promoting railways and inland waterways for
transporting freight.  An increase in the gasoline tax would bring about
nothing on its own.  The spokeswoman told the "Bild-Zeitung" that a federal
speed limit on the Autobahns would be the most important goal.  In coalition
negotiations with the SPD, the Greens would try to push through a speed
limit of 100 km/h on the Autobahns and 80 on other highways.  The SPD
rejects such blanket speed limits.  Kurt Beck, Minister President
Rhineland-Palatinate, told the same newspaper, "Speed limits should not be
an ideological, but rather a practical matter.  Reductions should be decided
on a case by case basis."  The federal office of the environment has asked
this week that the 30 km/h speed limit be introduced in cities, with
exceptions to be made for main traffic arteries.  According to studies, this
will appreciably decrease accidents, noise and pollution.

<P>
The CSU expressed itself more pithily: they are the party of drivers, and
Free Drivers are Free Citizens. ["Freie Fahrt fuer Freie Buerger"] Bernd
Protzner, its general secretary, warned against creeping rule from above and
micromanagement.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-6>
<H1>
Youthful Offenders Should Get a Taste of Prison
</H1>
Youngsters will enjoy a taste of prison.  With this formulation has the
Bavarian Justice Minister, Mr. Lieb, declared himself for the institution of
introductory imprisonment for youthful offenders.  He would like to stick
youthful offenders in prison for up to four weeks.  He told jurists in
Ingolstadt that this would give out a clearer warning signal than probation.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-04-7>
<H1>
Increased Security Measures for the World Cup Match in Lyon
</H1>
10,000 Germany supporters are expected in Lyon for the World Cup quarter
final between Germany and Croatia.  Many of these probably won't have
tickets to the stadium.  Originally, there were plans to set up large
projection screens downtown, but the security forces canceled them because
they feared that hooligans might start riots on the way.  Although many
would-be rioters have been ordered to stay in Germany, the police are
reckoning that 100 to 300 will make it to Lyon.  The prefecture of Rhone
announced that more than 2,000 policemen will be on duty in order to smother
disturbances as soon as the start.  18 German police officials will assist
the French security forces.  From 4 p.m. on, it will be forbidden to sell
alcohol either in bottles or at bars near the stadium or the neighborhood of
the train stations.  In the town as a whole, closing time for bars has been
moved forward to 11 p.m. and the discos will remain closed for the evening.

<P>
In Paris, French fans celebrated the victory of Team Tricolor over the
Italian team, and its entry into the semifinals, until far into the night.
It was impossible to get through the Champs-Elysees between the honking cars
and the singing young people.  In spite of their disappointment that the
decision went against their team, many Italian fans took part in the
celebration as well.

