<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-1>
<H1>
Changes to atomic energy laws
</H1>
The newspaper "Le Monde" reports that there was very little chance of
success for demands for compensation from Germany in connection with
German government plans to reduce the amount of atomic waste for
recycling sent to France and Britain. The newspaper quoted from the
contract between Germany and the atomic waste factory La Hauge which was
signed in 1990. According to the contract, the signatories are not liable
for compensation when acts of God or changes in government policy in Bonn
are involved.

<P>
The German government plans regarding atomic waste has put the red-green
coalition under pressure. The two German States involved, Lower Saxony
and North-Rhine Westphalia, have protested at plans that the used nuclear
fuel rods no longer be sent to France and Britain for recycling but,
instead, they be sent to interim nuclear storage plants in Germany, that
is, Gorleben and Ahaus.

<P>
Around 1000 people demonstrated against the planned changes in Ahaus,
North Rhine-Westphalia.  The opponents of nuclear energy oppose the
resumption of datomic waste deliveries to Ahaus and Gorleben . The
red-green Government is also planning to take back atomic waste from the
overseas recycling plants. Messrs. Mueller and Schlauch, leaders of the
Green parliamentary group, said that these measures were necessary. These
changes to the transport of nuclear waste, according to them, were
however, not discussed in advance with anti-nuclear power lobby groups.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-2>
<H1>
Dissatisfaction with new environment taxation
</H1>
The red-green government's plans to increase environment taxation
continue to attract criticism by environmental and economic groups.
Environmental organisations have pointed to flaws in the government's
plans, the day before a meeting of experts from the parliamentary
committee of finance. According to various economic associations, the
draft law does not achieve its ecological and economic goals. Economic
experts are now demanding that the draft laws be substantially changed.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-3>
<H1>
Government; budget cutbacks
</H1>
The German government is apparently planning on budgetary cutbacks. The
Green's financial expert, Mr. Metzger, announced at a meeting of his
party that practically all budgets will be cut. The only exceptions are
in the area of education and research, development aid and areas
affecting the economy, he said. The long-term goal, he said, would be to
reduce new government debt by half.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-4>
<H1>
Lafontaine appeals to public service to make modest wage demands
</H1>
Oskar Lafontaine, Federal Minister of Finance, has appealed to the public
service to make modest wage demands in the coming round of wage
negotiations. The Union for Public Servants has submitted a demand for a
5,5 percent increase which Mr. Lafontaine regards as excessive. He said
that employees of the German government, states and communities should be
more modest than those in private employment as their jobs were more
secure. Negotiations begin on January 29.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-5>
<H1>
PDS party conference
</H1>
Gregor Gysi, leader of the parliamentary group of the Party of Democratic
Socialism (PDS - former East German party), has sharply criticised his
own party. In a speech at the party conference, Mr. Gysi said that the
public's view of the PDS was bad. He also advised party members to be
more careful in with public statements and that that members could only
comment on what the party really wants. The party conference ended late
Sunday afternoon. Despite criticism of the red-green government, the PDS,
according to Mr. Gysi, were prepared to co-operate with them. He thus
asked members of the PDS to support the government in the question of
double citizenship, in particular, to reject  the CDU's current campaign.
Mr. Bisky, re-elected chairman of the PDS, also made an appeal to his
party to let go of the past.

<P>
An interesting development is the reelection of a communist to the PDS
board for the first time since 1995. The communist faction of the PDS
rejects the PDS move to more mid-stream politics and co-operation with
the red-green government. The communist elected is Mr. Benjamin, 66, who
was a legal theorist in the former East Germany.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-6>
<H1>
Signature campaign against double citizenship
</H1>
The CDU claims that the start to their signature campaign against the
current government's laws for allowing double citizenship has been a big
success. It is reported that over 35,000 signatures have been collected
in the state of Hesse alone. The campaign in Berlin has apparently been
similarly successful, according to a CDU spokesman. Wolfgang Schaeuble,
leader of the CDU, has announced that the CDU intends to start legal
proceedings in the constitutional court against double citizenship should
the government hold to their current draft laws.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-17-7>
<H1>
Frey re-elected as leader of the DVU
</H1>
The Munich publisher, Gerhard Frey, has been re-elected leader of the
DVU (German Peoples' Union), an extreme right-wing party. The party did
not comment on the results of the election. Mr. Frey announced that the
DVU intends to overcome the five percent "hurdle" in the coming state
parliament elections in Bremen in June. The DVU is not participating in
state elections in Hesse in February.

