<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-1>
<H1>
German-Czech Future Fund Established
</H1>
Germany and the Czech Republic established a joint future fund and
a forum for discussions. Both institutions will begin their work in
January. Germany will contribute DM 140 million over the next four years
and the Czech Republic will contribute approx. DM 25 million. The largest
part of the money is to benefit the approximately 8000 Nazi victims still
living in the Czech Republic who have not received any aid from Germany
until now. In addition, projects are planned for youth exchanges, care of
the elderly, and care of historic buildings and monuments.
The controversial question concerning the seating of the managing committee
was left out of the negotiations. Bonn had named two representatives of the
"Sudetendeutschen Landsmannschaften" (Association of Sudeten Germans), whom
Prague had rejected. The fund is based on the German-Czech Declaration of
January, 1997.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-2>
<H1>
Strong Criticism of Family Minister Nolte on Her View of Abortion Law
</H1>
The SPD strongly criticized Federal Minister of Family Affairs,
Claudia Nolte, concerning her statements on the abortion law (Paragraph
218). Nolte complained that the new law so far has not led to a decrease in
the number of abortions. She did not rule out the possibility that the
abortion law could be heard again before the federal constitutional court.
The SPD's legal expert, Hertha Daeubler-Gmelin, demanded that Nolte become
the advocate for pregnant women in hardship situations. If pregnancies were
terminated due to emergencies, then the federal minister of family affairs
should provide aid to those women. She said that instead, the federal
government drove more and more families into poverty. More than half of all
abortions occur in existing marriage and family settings. The
"Buendnisgruenen" and the PDS also exercised criticism in their statements,
claiming that the high number of abortions were a result of the government
coalition's practically hostile policies toward children.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-3>
<H1>
Taxpayers' Union Demands Slimmed-Down Goverment
</H1>
The Union of Taxpayers has joined the General Auditing Office in
demanding that the administration be reformed and reduced in size on the
occasion of the move from Bonn to Berlin. The vice president of the union
of taxpayers, Lau, suggested in a newspaper interview that the number of
ministries be reduced from currently 15 to 8 or 10 at the most. This would
still be possible if only Chancellor Kohl and the coalition set their minds
to it. Lau criticized that recommendations by the taxpayers' union for a
lean government have been ignored for years.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-4>
<H1>
Schmoldt: Employers Must Create Jobs
</H1>
The chairperson of IG Bergbau, Chemie, Energie (Mining, Chemistry,
and Energy Union), Hubertus Schmoldt, has urged employers to create new
jobs. Schmoldt said during the ARD/ZDF broadcast "Morgenmagazin" that
unions had acted responsibly during contract negotiations over the past
years and had contributed their share to an Alliance for Jobs." Now it were
time for the federal government and employers to do the same. Schmoldt
said, "The results within the companies do certainly warrant new hirings."
Schmoldt also accused the head of the German Federation of Industry,
Henkel, of calling for a violation of the consitution. Henkel's call for
breaking labor contracts constitued a violation of the constitution and
represented the end of labor contract autonomy. In an interview with the
news magazine "Spiegel," the president of the German Federation of Industry
had praised East German employers for infringing on collective bargaining
contracts.
At the same time, he expressed hope that this would also happen
in the west in the future.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-5>
<H1>
NABU Makes Waigel "Dinosaur of the Year"
</H1>
The nature conservancy, NABU, strikes a negative environmental
balance for 1997. NABU president, Flasbart (sp?), explained that the past
year in environmental protection was closely related to the failure of the
union of nations at its climate summit in Kyoto with respect to the
protection of the environment, with the United States being primarily
responsible for the disappointing and insufficient result of the
conference. Flasbart also criticized that the amendment of the
environmental protection act failed for the fourth time during the tenure
of office of Chancellor Kohl. He said there was still no sensible concept
in the Federal Republic to solve conflicts between agriculture and
environmental protection. NABU also crowned Finance Minister Theo Waigel as
the "Dinosaur of the Year 1997." According to NABU, Waigel receives
"Germany's most embarrassing environmental award" for his financial
politics directed against nature. Flasbert said Waigel became the highest
risk factor for national parks in Germany, especially since parts of the
East German national parks are to be sold to private parties. Waigel is the
fifth "award recipient" to receive the cast of a giant saurian made of
pewter.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-6>
<H1>
Economic Barometer Improved
</H1>
The barometer of the German economy improved again. According to
the annual survey of the Institute of the German Economy, the employment
situation will also improve in certain sectors. Among the six sectors that
intend to increase their personnel are the large industries of electrical
manufacturing, plastics, and metal. However, every second industry branch
in Germany anticipates a further reduction in employment. The institute,
which has ties to employers, traditionally surveys 41 economic
organizations.
According to the survey, the state of the economy in Germany will remain
divided in the next year. The survey finds that manly export-oriented
industry sectors are on the upswing, but the retail sector, as well as the
construction sector and its suppliers are facing a bleak future.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-7>
<H1>
Jagoda Expects Decrease In Unemployment In 1998
</H1>
The president of the Federal Labor Office, Jagoda, expects a
decrease in unemployment in the coming year. He stated in a newspaper
interview that his office had calculated 4.38 million unemployed for 1998,
as many as in 1997. Compared to the previous year, the increase in
unemployment in West Germany has gone down, and it is beginning to
stabilize in the east. According to Jagoda, this is the reason why Germany
will look more favorably in the coming year than in the current one. Jagoda
expects more jobs primarily in the metal and electrical sectors.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-8>
<H1>
Daimler-Benz Significantly Increased Profits
</H1>
Daimler-Benz AG registered a marked growth in the current
business year. According to the company, the external turnover of more than
DM 120 billion is almost 20 percent higher than 1996.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-29-9>
<H1>
Pilot Union: Passengers Should Follow Instructions
</H1>
After the airplane incident over the Pacific Ocean, the pilots' union
Cockpit requested that all passengers pay closer attention to the safety
regulations on airplanes. According to a spokesperson of the organisation,
passengers frequently fail to take the instructions from pilots and flight
attendants seriously. Last night, a jumbo jet carrying a full load of
passengers, experienced heavy turbulences over the Pacific Ocean and fell
300 meters. One woman died. Approximately 100
people were injured, some seriously. Numerous passengers had not worn their
safety belts.

