<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-1>
<H1>
NATO destroys government building in Belgrade during air strikes
</H1>
NATO bombed targets in downtown Belgrade for the first time since the air
strikes in Yugoslavia began. Three American war ships and a British
submarine fired cruise missiles at the Serbian and Yugoslavian Ministry of
the Interior last night. Eight cruise missiles struck the buildings in
downtown Belgrade and the Ministry was engulfed in flames within seconds.
It was morning by the time the fire department could extinguish the flames.
as the missiles hit the Ministry building, they destroyed two important
control headquarters for the Yugoslavian army and the Serbian special
troops. Both have been known to terrorize the Albanian citizens in Kosovo.
Authorities had to evacuate a hospital last night that is only 30 meters
from the government buildings. The images of mothers with their newborn
children, who were transferred to air-raid shelters,  showed that even
Belgrade is no longer safe. The Serbian Minister of the Interior called the
attacks a barbarian act. He called NATO a Clinton-led Neonazi organization
and paralleled the strikes to bombings during World War II. The NATO
Alliance apparently wanted to use the attacks on government buildings in
Belgrade  apparently as a model for  future bombings in Yugoslavia.
<P>
NATO also attacked targets in the Serbian city of Nis and in Pristina,  the
capital of the Kosovo province.  Apparently, two missiles mistakenly landed
in Albania near the city of Tirana. The Russian government condemned the
attack as barbaric. SFOR troop soldiers in Bosnia blew up a railway line
east of Sarajevo. The line is part of the connection between Serbia and
Montenegro and goes through Bosnia-Herzogovina. The SFOR announced that the
blast was a preventative measure. They wanted to prevent Yugoslav forces
from marching into Bosnia.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-2>
<H1>
Strikes starting from Germany
</H1>
According to a spokesman for US forces in Europe, American fighter planes
will be flying out of Germany in the future for air strikes against
Yugoslavia, confirming a report of the Trierische Volksfreunde. The flights
will apparently relieve the overload at the NATO air base Aviano in Italy.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-3>
<H1>
Federal government sticks to previous NATO strategy
</H1>
The German federal government is sticking to its previous NATO strategy in
the Kosovo conflict and will not consider sending ground troops into the
region. Chancellor Schroeder announced during a press conference in Bonn
that the government has  no reason to change its position. At the same
time, he confirmed that Germany will also admit refugees. After a detailed
discussion of the situation, Schroeder spoke of a dramatic intensification
of the refugee situation. Secretary of State Fischer added that these are
methodical deportations, intended to drive out an entire people, and an
unbelievable war crime. Schroeder said that the Balkan states of Macedonia
and Albania can not be left alone to deal with this situation. This is why
it is necessary to develop an appropriate refugee policy for the time
being. According to Mr. Schroder, Mr. Fischer and Mr. Scharping, the
parties could begin to talk about a political solution when President
Milosevic discontinues all clashes in Kosovo, withdraws his troops and
allows the refugees who have been expelled to return home.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-4>
<H1>
Easter peace marches
</H1>
Easter peace marches took place in several cities today to demonstrate
against the war. According to the peace march headquarters in Frankfurt,
demonstrations, pickets and rallies were held in more than forty Germany
cities. The actions had more participants than in previous years due to the
Kosovo crisis; however, the attendance numbers were still quite low. The
participants of the Easter peace marches demanded an immediate end to the
NATO attacks and new initiatives for a political solution to the crisis.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-5>
<H1>
International relief for Kosovo refugees
</H1>
International relief actions for Kosovo refugees have begun. The German Red
Cross and the Arbeitersamariterbund (an aid organization) sent two cargo
planes full of sleeping bags, blankets, tents and basic foodstuffs to the
crisis region. Even the Belgian air force flew relief goods for Kosovo
refugees into Macedonia and Albania. The United Nation's World Hunger
programme began an airlift this weekend. The Italian authorities estimate
that almost a quarter million people have fled Kosovo into neighboring
countries. Meanwhile, the situation on the borders of Kosovo continues to
worsen. The Macedonian government announced that they will no longer allow
any more refugees into their country. The 50,000 people that they have
already taken in threaten the country's political and economic stability.
Macedonia appealed to its neighboring countries and the countries in the
European Union to take in refugees. NATO wants to send armed troops into
Albania to protect relief shipments for the refugees. Several thousand
soldiers are to be sent into the region.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-6>
<H1>
Warning against concentration due to mergers
</H1>
In view of the emerging globalized economies, the president of the Federal
Anti-trust Commission, Mr. Wolf, feels that there should be global merger
controls. Wolf said that concentrations can already be seen in certain
markets that could threaten international competition. Wolf called upon the
government to support the creation of a global competition organization.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-03-7>
<H1>
Hydrochloric acid spill in Ulm
</H1>
Hydrochloric acid spilled from a German Railways tank-car in Ulm. No one
was injured in the spill, but thirty residents had to evacuate their houses
as a precaution. Experts rule out any great environmental damage. According
to initial investigations, one of the welded joints in the tank was rusted
through.

