<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-1>
<H1>
Retailing Wage Dispute Expands
</H1>
 As part of the wage dispute in retailing, the HBV union
has expanded its warning strikes.  According to the union, its goal
was to create considerable disturbances during the summer sales in
the strike-affected businesses during this long Saturday.  Once
again, the focus of the protests was Northrhine-Westphalia.  In
Rhineland/Palatinate, employers brought their first offer of these
wage negotiations to the table.  According to this offer, they
would pay an increase of 18% after 6:30 p.m. when the stores have
longer hours.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-2>
<H1>
Muentefering Wants Law to Make Businesses Accept Apprentices
</H1>
 The federal manager of the SPD, Mr. Muentefering has called
for the introduction of a law which would make it the obligation
of businesses to accept apprentices.  Mr. Muentefering said that the
time for appeals had passed since the problem of finding
apprenticeship positions would be exacerbated in the future because
the number of school drop-outs was rising.  The SPD-politician
reproached the economy with not keeping its promise of creating an
additional 10% of apprenticeship positions.  In connection with this
reproach, the president of the German Industry and Trade Congress,
Mr. Stihl, criticized the unions for what he called exaggerating the
number of needed apprenticeship positions.
The head of the parliamentary economic committee, Mr. Ost, stated
that it was a matter of creating an apprenticeship position for
everyone who wanted to be trained.  For this reason, he said, it
would be proper to freeze compensation for apprentices until 1997.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-3>
<H1>
Appeal of Priebke-Verdict
</H1>
The military prosecutor's office in Rome has announced that it
would appeal the acquittal of former SS-Officer Priebke.  At the same
time, it was confirmed that Mr. Priebke would be held in custody
pending extradition.  The extradition request came from Germany.  The
German justice system also wants to take the 83-year-old to court for
the execution of hostages near Rome in 1943.  The government of
Argentina, where Priebke last resided, has already signalled its
agreement.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-4>
<H1>
EU Exercises Pressure om Bosnian Croats in Mostar
</H1>
The European Union is exercising pressure on the Bosnian Croats in
Mostar.  The Union threatens that the EU will withdraw from the
city, if the Bosnian Croats continue to boycott the city council.
The ultimatum is to expire in a few hours, at midnight [Saturday].
It is not clear whether the Croatian government will try to influence
its compatriots in Mostar.
Things have not changed in the Bosnia conflict: an ultimatum is given
and, the closer the time of its expiration, the more seeming activity
ensues.  If the Bosnian Croats do not recognize the Mostar elections
by midnight and resume political cooperation with the Moslems, EU-
Special Deputy Garret, states, then the EU-administration will pack
its suitcases.  The Croatian party HDZ is in the Bosnian city Neun on
the Adriatic and is conferring about the matter.  These arch-radical
nationalists suddenly state that they refuse to be pressured.  And,
in order to strengthen their refusal, they elect a man to head their
party who openly opposes any compromise with the Moslems, who, on the
contrary, is a decisive advocate of an absolutely separate Croatia.
President Tudjman has sent his emissaries from Zagreb.  President
Clinton had just lectured him in the matter of Mostar among other
matters and the Upper Croatian had appeared to yield in Washington
and had even appeared to be capable of compromise.  When he returned
to his home shortly thereafter, he told his own TV the exact
opposite.  If, at this time, his emissaries in Bosnia-Herzegovina
maintain that coming to an agreement with the EU in the matter of
Mostar is only a matter of time, then this ambiguous statement is to
be taken with a cautious grain of salt.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-5>
<H1>
Another Meat Scandal
</H1>
During the past year, several thousands of tons of meat containing
the antibiotic Chloramphenicol have been sold in Germany.  According
to a report in the newsmagazine DER SPIEGEL, staff members of the
Federal Institute for the Health Protection of Consumers and for
Veterinary Medicine found residue of the medication in every
thirtieth animal tested.  According to the report, the medication can
lead to severe bone marrow damage in human beings.  The medication
had been banned in the European Union two years ago.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-6>
<H1>
Street Fights in Bremen
</H1>
 In a district of Bremen, approximately 300 punks
had confrontations with the police on Friday night.  These
confrontations lasted several hours.  According to police, four
officers were hurt in the process; 80 persons were arrested.  The
punks blocked a crossing in the inner city of Bremen and threw
bottles and stones at passing cars.  In accordance with the ban on
chaos days, things remained quiet in Hannover on Friday night.
Approximately 6 000 police officers are to prevent excesses like
those which occurred last year.  During the chaos days in 1995,
several hundred people were injured in street fights.  During the
day, things generally remained peaceful in Bremen but the tension was
there.  As a protective measure against further rioting, the police
transferred units from Hannover to Bremen.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-7>
<H1>
Bus Accident Costs Two Human Lives
</H1>
 During a bus accident on the Catalonian coast, a
vacationing 19-year-old German woman and a truck driver lost their
lives.  According to Spanish police, 22 tourists were hurt during the
accident on Friday evening.  Among them were eleven German
vacationers.  The other victims came from Great Britain, the
Netherlands. France and Italy.  The truck had collided with the bus
on a highway and had badly damaged the left side of the vehicle.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-03-8>
<H1>
GdP Calls for Measures Restricting Novice Drivers-Licencees
</H1>
 Pointing to a great number of traffic accidents after visits
to discos, the police union has called for a driving ban during
weekend nights for new license holders.  Also, a strict ban
on alcohol should apply to this group, said GdP-Head, Mr. Lutz.
9 000 traffic deaths a year were too high a price for unlimited
mobility, he continued; only restrictions could remedy the situation.

