<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-1>
<H1>
Lopez also to face charges in Germany
</H1>
Controversial Volkswagen manager Lopez will now also have to
stand before a German court. After more than three and half years of
inquiries, the German public prosecutor's office will tomorrow bring
charges of betraying company secrets against the former Volkswagen
purchasing executive. The leading public prosecutor indicated that details
would be made public at a press conference on Friday. According to the
plaintiff - the Adam Opel company - the public prosecution has decided
that three additional Volkswagen managers will also have to answer to the
courts. They moved with Lopez from Opel to Volkswagen in 1993. According
to information from the justice department, the managers will most likely
be charged on two counts: betrayal of company secrets, and embezzlement.
If found guilty, they will face up to three years' imprisonment. General
Motors and its German daughter-company, Opel, accuse Lopez of having taken
secret documents with him in his move to Volkswagen. GM's case, suing
Volkswagen for damages, is presently in progress in the United States; the
amount of the damages has not yet been determined.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-2>
<H1>
Regional negotiations in metals industry
</H1>
Regional wage negotiations in the metals
industry showed that the idea of adopting the agreement made in Lower
Saxony in other areas of the country remains controversial.
The employers in the bargaining districts of North Rhine-Westphalia,
Hesse, Rhineland-Palatinate, and Saarland especially criticized the
continuance of full pay for sick workers, as agreed to in Lower Saxony.
In the Kueste district, negotiations were put on hold, with no significant
movement to show yet.
At talks in Bavaria, which started in the afternoon, the employers
expressed their view that the settlement in Lower Saxony was not a pilot
agreement, but rather simply an orienting framework. They said that they
wanted to quickly find a solution which would allow individual settlements
for cases of illness. Bavaria's IG Metall union boss, Neugebauer, said
before the negotiations began that the union wanted the Lower Saxony
agreement to be adopted, and they would not accept a lesser settlement.
In Southern Wurttemberg/Southern Baden, the relevant union and management
committees approved a wage compromise. Their contract follows the general
outline of the Lower Saxony settlement; in particular, it assures that
sick pay will continue to equal full pay, although without supplements and
overtime, until the year 2001. However, this settlement addresses the
compensation to the employers for that concession differently: instead of
5 percent less Christmas bonus, workers will have to put in up to seven
extra hours for Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve.
In the bargaining district of North Rhine-Westphalia there was also a
break-through: in discussing Christmas bonuses, union and management
agreed that individual companies will be able to choose between a
reduction of five percent and a model in which the amount of the bonus
depends on whether workers are off sick or not.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-3>
<H1>
Schmidbauer testifies again about Mauss case
</H1>
For the second time, secret service coordinator Schmidbauer spoke to
the Bundestag today about the affair involving private agent Mauss. During
question period, the minister assured the Bundestag that he had not dealt
with drug lords in his efforts to establish a peace dialogue in Columbia.
Schmidbauer again defended his cooperation with Mauss in freeing a German
woman, Brigitte Schoene, from the Colombian rebels holding her. He also
claimed to have learned only recently of accusations that Mauss was
involved in drugs and weapons deals, and said that he doubted the validity
of such suspicions. Mauss is presently being held by police in Medellin
for questioning. Colombian officials accuse him of kidnapping, and of
using forged identity documents.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-4>
<H1>
"Sparpaket" (savings package) is Word of the Year
</H1>
The German Word of the Year for 1996 is "Sparpaket" (savings
package), the Gesellschaft fuer deutsche Sprache (Society for the German
Language) has announced. The society said it chose the word because it
stands for a variety of discussions of financial and socio-political
importance over the past year. "Sparpaket" was selected far ahead of
"Haushaltsloecher" (budgetary gaps - literally "holes") and
"Lohnfortzahlung" (continuance of full pay - while off work due to
illness). The Word of the Year for 1995 was "Multimedia".

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-5>
<H1>
Post office: off the rails and onto the streets
</H1>
The post office wants to transport mail by truck rather than by rail
in the future. A spokesman for the post office confirmed that contracts
with the railway have been cancelled as of May 31, 1997. He said that cost
was not the only reason for the change; rather, the speed of delivery
which the post office desired could not be achieved with the railway, and
so trucks would be used in the future.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-6>
<H1>
Deployment of German army in Bosnia approved
</H1>
The federal cabinet has approved the deployment of 3,000 German
soldiers within the framework of the new Bosnian peace troop SFOR. The
mission is scheduled to last 18 months. For the first time, a large number
of units will be stationed in Bosnia itself. Until now, German forces
operated out of Croatia. The government is advising the Bundestag to
approve the deployment, even if the UN Security Council has not yet
formally issued the mandate. The SPD rejects that idea and is calling for
a special sitting if a UN mandate has not been issued in time for the
Bundestag's normal session on Friday. SPD Secretary General Struck
reaffirmed that there will be no "prior clearance" given. The SPD is
insisting on this position even though it agrees with the governing
coalition on the deployment, and no controversial changes to the mandate
are expected form the UN. Struck explained this obstinacy by saying that
such a serious decision, involving potential danger to German soldiers'
lives, demanded that correct procedures be followed. The coalition and
also the Green Party consider a special sitting to be unnecessary.
Meanwhile, the spokesman for the Foreign Affairs Office, Erdmann, has said
that there was a good chance that the Security Council would issue the
resolution by Friday morning.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-7>
<H1>
Multimedia bill approved
</H1>
The federal cabinet has approved the text of a bill dealing with
multimedia. It establishes the legal framework for computer services of
all kinds and is supposed to come into effect on August 1, 1997. Research
Minister Ruettgers said the law will allow everyone to offer or to use
tele-services and computer services. According to Ruettgers the
inviolability of customers and data will be guaranteed, and the
distribution of pornography as well as texts and images inciting violence
will be made difficult. As a world first, the law also provides for the
protection of an "electronic signature", by means of which notices or
orders can be authenticated in tele-banking, tele-shopping, as well as in
dealing with government offices via computer.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-8>
<H1>
Poll: majority favours ban of cellular phones in traffic
</H1>
A large majority of people favours prohibiting the use of
cellular phones while driving and flying. That is the result of a poll
commissioned by the weekly newspaper "Die Woche". 75 percent consider
talking on the phone while driving to be dangerous and want it banned by
law. Two-thirds of Germans would also like to see a ban on using cellular
phones in airplanes, in order to avoid technical problems.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-9>
<H1>
Addiction yearbook: alcohol is number 1 drug in Germany
</H1>
Alcohol continues to be Germany's number 1 addictive substance. As
documented by the German Office for Addiction Studies in its new yearbook,
average alcohol consumption decreased by 1.8 percent over the last year.
However, the average daily intake is still over the maximum suggested by
the World Health Organization. Consumption of cigarettes in Germany
increased by 0.7 percent. According to the yearbook, 37 percent of German
men and 22 percent of German women over 14 years old smoke. Among illegal
drugs: use of heroin has declined; use of synthetic drugs and cannabis
products have increased. The study indicates that there are 2.5 million
people in German addicted to alcohol, 1.4 million to medications, about
120,000 drug addicts, and 6 million dependent smokers.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-10>
<H1>
More than a million signatures for tougher sex laws
</H1>
Five citizens groups have gathered more than a million
signatures calling for tougher laws against sex offences. The petitions
were given to Bundestag President Suessmuth. At the same time, a parents
group in Bavaria presented a further 120,000 signatures to the state
Landtag. The citizens groups were formed after the sexual assault and
murder of a seven-year-old girl named Nathalie about 3 months ago. They
are calling for improvements in holding criminals, and no early release.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-11>
<H1>
Referendum on spelling reform in Bavaria?
</H1>
There are no more obstacles to a petition for a referendum on the
new spelling reform. The association "More Democracy" explained that it
had gathered the necessary 25,000 signatures. A German teacher in
Weilheim, Friedrich Denk, managed this feat in a record time of only 10
days. The petition must now be given to the Bavarian Ministry of Internal
Affairs.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-12>
<H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg: secondary budget laws passed
</H1>
The majority CDU and FDP have pushed a controversial package of
secondary budget laws for 1997 through the Landtag. The package cuts
services for counties, parents, students, sporting, and the handicapped by
about 530 million marks. Among other things, savings are to be realized in
student transportation and services for the blind. In the debate preceding
the vote on the bill, the opposition accused the coalition of making
serious mistakes in the cuts. Representatives of the CDU and FDP said that
there were no alternatives to cutting expenditures. The full budget for
1997 will reach the Landtag in February, and will have a total volume of
62.5 billion marks.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-11-13>
<H1>
Disruptions in air traffic expected from warning strikes
</H1>
Warning strikes which have been called for Lufthansa tomorrow
will disrupt air traffic all over the country. The National Union of
Employees announced details of the work action today. Between 6:30 and
8:30 tomorrow morning, pilots and flight attendants will lay down their
work. At airports in Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich, Duesseldorf, and Hanover,
ground personnel have also been called on to cease work temporarily. The
union wants the strikes to help them get higher wages and a shorter-term
contract.

