<DOC de-news-1999-04-23-1>
<H1>
NATO's 50th anniversary
</H1>
NATO wants to turn up the heat, both military and economical, on Yugoslavia
to force the Belgrade government to back down in the Kosovo conflict. This
according to a joint declaration by the 19 NATO-member states, signed at
the Washington summit-meeting. The document also stated that there would
be no compromise as far as the conditions for an end to airstrikes were
concerned. At the same time the Alliance agreed to halt airstrikes if
Yugoslavia accepted the five known conditions and also started to withdraw
troops from the Kosovo region. NATO also declared they were committed to
a democratic, peaceful and multi-racial Kosovo. NATO reiterated their claims
for all violence to be stopped, the withdrawal of all Yugoslavian armed
forces, an international military presence in the Kosovo region, the return
of all refugees and a credible commitment by the Yugoslavian government
to negotiations about a political solution of the Kosovo conflict.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-23-2>
<H1>
Ms Vollmer: EU-oil-embargo probably won't work
</H1>
Deputy president of parliament Vollmer (Bundestagsvizepresidaentin) does not
believe that an oil-embargo by the EU against Yugoslavia will be followed
through a 100%, according to an interview on radio Deutschlandfunk. She took
it for granted that not all EU-member states would really toe the line.
Previously the EU had formally made a decision to introduce an oil-embargo,
as of middle of next week. Mr Pflueger, head of the Europe Committee in
parliament, added that the Kosovo conflict demonstrated how important the
extension of NATO (to include the eastern countries) was. Where there was EU
and NATO, there was stability and peace, else there (often) was war. State
Secretary Verheugen, of the Foreign Office, however said that EU-membership
would not have avoided the current conflict, but a European perspective
could solve it.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-23-3>
<H1>
Germany won't take more refugees, for the time being
</H1>
Apart from its quota of 10,000 Germany will not take more Kosovo refugees,
for the time being, according to a spokesperson for the state and federal
governments. They also pointed out that now the other EU-countries would
have to pull their weight. According to Federal Minister for Internal
Affairs Schily, only some 12,000 Kosovo Albanians had been put up outside
Germany. France allegedly is prepared to take a maximum of 10,000 refugees,
whereas Switzerland would let some 2,500 more Kosovo refugees into the
country.

<P>
Meanwhile the OSZE has compiled a report on violations of human rights in
the Serbian province. It contained accounts of rape, torture, mutilation
and executions, according to a OSZE spokesperson in Macedonia.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-23-4>
<H1>
Unions for bank staff threaten industrial action
</H1>
Unions asked employers to return to negotiations about awards in the banking
sector. DAG and HBV unions mentioned in a letter that in case there was no
agreement this month, they would call for general strikes at the beginning
of May, and that would cover all of Germany. Both unions, once again,
declined the employers' demand to introduce work on Saturdays without
penalty rates. They indicated, however, that they would be prepared to
compromise in individual cases. Construction workers kept protesting
today. According to the unions some 8000 staff downed tools today.


<DOC de-news-1999-04-23-5>
<H1>
25th Federal Garden Expo in Magdeburg opens doors
</H1>
Today Federal President Herzog (Bundespraesident) opened the 25th Garden
Expo at Magdeburg. The expo expects some 2 million visitors till 17 October.
It took workers, landscapers and architects only two years to transform a
former huge military site into 100 hectares of variety garden. Visitors may
take part in more than 2000 events, including concerts, festivals and
TV-shows.

