<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-1>
<H1>
Schroeder demands new course for Social Democrats
</H1>
The President of Lower Saxony, Mr. Schroeder, demands a new course
for Social Democrats.  During a newspaper interview, the top
politician called for his party to open up towards the center.
Schroeder also signalled a turnabout in the controversy concerning
tax reform.  The SPD would no longer offer resistance in this
matter.  The reform of the German tax system is a matter of urgency
and the states are ready to agree with the federal government.
That is the message which Gerhard Schroeder sent to the Coalition
of Saturday morning via the BILD-ZEITUNG.  During the interview,
Schroeder did emphasize, however, that the SPD would be decisively
influenced by the social problems which might arise when the
taxation system was reformed.  And that would also mean seeing to
the creation of new jobs.  Because of this, Schroeder is also
convinced that lowering the highest tax rate on private incomes
should be part of this reform.  Schroeder claimed that this would
be of precise benefit to the middle class which, after all,
commands two thirds of all jobs.  In connection with this,
Schroeder calls for his party to open its programs towards the
center.  Labor alone can no longer provide a majority, he
continued.  Asked who should be the top candidate to represent the
program he outlined during next year's election, Schroeder
responded that a program could only be represented by someone who
supported its contents completely.  But of course, the candidate
who would be most successful according to surveys thinks that a
program might also support a candidate.  A candidate does need a program
with which he can identify.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-2>
<H1>
FDP offers compromise on pension reform
</H1>
The FDP has signalled the Social Democrats that it might compromise
on pension reform.  Faction head Herrmann Otto Solms stated in the
news magazine DER SPIEGEL that the liberals would be willing to
negotiate about the controversial lowering of pension levels if the
SPD would accept the government's offer to negotiate.  "As long as
the basic direction is proper, we shall not let negotiations fail
because of two or three per cent more or less," Mr. Solms told DER
SPIEGEL.  Thus far, the Coalition plans to lower the pension level
gradually from 70 to 64 per cent of net wages.  The SPD generally
opposes the decrease.  On Monday the executive committee of the SPD
will decide whether the SPD will enter into pension negotiations
with the government.  Meanwhile, Federal Minister of Labor Bluem
has made clear that he wants to continue to advocate the lowering
of pension levels.  During a discussion with the news magazine
FOCUS, he stated that this measure would also include today's
pensioners in sharing the costs of the rise in life expectancy.
The younger generation would be unable to carry these costs alone.
Therefore there must be no compromise without consideration of
young people, i.e., without lowering the pension level.  And, in
Mr. Bluem's own words, if necessary, we'll make the reforms without
consent.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-3>
<H1>
Young Socialists meet in Berlin
</H1>
After the appearance of the federal head of the SPD, Mr. Lafontaine
at the federal congress of the Young Socialists, the Social
Democrat youth organization was again occupied by its own concerns
on Saturday.  Lafontaine told the approximately 300 delegates in
Berlin on Friday that the securing of jobs would be the focal issue
in the government platform.  On Saturday the youth group wanted to
elect its new leadership.  The election will have to be repeated on
Sunday, however, because of a procedural error.
Andrea Nales is the main hope of the young SPD.  Two years ago, she
was elected by the second ballot because the political wings could
not agree on anyone else.  On Saturday, the 26 year old Bonn
student of Germanic Languages and Literatures seemed to be sure of
re-election.  Andrea Nales has rescued the organization of young
SPD members from its life in the shadow and its endless debates
concerning theory.  Topics like apprenticeship opportunities, solar
technology, or educational policies are in the platform of the
Young Socialists.  Andrea Nales had one of her major successes last
year at the special party meeting of the SPD in Cologne.  She is
credited with the decision to introduce a tax for businesses which
do not employ enough young people.  She had demanded a tax of this
sort as soon as she became head of the Young Socialists and had
fought with persistent spadework for having this demand included in
the SPD's main motion.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-4>
<H1>
Dressler reproaches government for unwillingness to compromise
</H1>
The SPD social affairs expert, Mr. Dressler has reproached the
Union and the FDP for not being willing to compromise in the
controversy concerning pension reform.  He stated his criticism in
the DEUTSCHLANDFUNK, saying that the Coalition just was not ready
to correct the error in the pension system which was made by a
leadership unacquainted with insurance procedures, something the
SPD had offered to do.  Once again he attacked plans to lower
pension levels.  Acceptance would decrease among younger
contributors and, in the long run, the danger of overdrawing from
the fund would increase.  Furthermore, the SPD-politician
reproached the government for publishing only selected figures
rather than the entire model calculation of their concept.  Mr.
Dressler emphasized that the SPD would be ill advised to begin
negotiations by speaking only from the view point of mere cuts.
Then the voter would have to choose.  On Monday, the SPD-leadership
will decide about the offer to negotiate made by Minister of Labor
Bluem.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-5>
<H1>
Strikes in the construction industry become more likely
</H1>
The possibility of a strike is becoming more and more probable in the
collective wage negotiotions of the construction industry. Following
yesterday's unfavorable vote in the district of North Rhine, today six
more state wage committees have voted against the compromise proposal. The
union announced that the main reasons for the unfavorable votes were the
cuts in the thirteenth month's salary and the restrictions in sick-pay.
Only in Saxony-Anhalt, the compromise proposal received a small majority.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-6>
<H1>
Government projects deficit of 20 billion
</H1>
The federal government projects a new budget deficit of at least 20
billion Marks in the combined budgets of federal, state, and local
governments, the newspaper WELT AM SONNTAG reports. Only a few weeks
ago, Finance Minister Waigel had considered 20 billion to be an inflated
projection, and had said that a deficit of a little over 10 billion Marks
was more likely. The newest estimates on tax revenue to be collected will
be introduced on Thursday in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-7>
<H1>
Hoehn cautious of energy agreement with state government
</H1>
The minister of the environment in North Rhine-Westphalia, Mr. Hoehn of
Buendnis 90/The Greens, has cautioned the SPD to follow prime minister
Schroeder's suggestion of an energy agreement with the state government.
In an interview with the radio station DEUTSCHLANDRADIO BERLIN, Hoehn
said that if the social democrats were hoping for a red-green coalition in
the federal government, then they needed to retain a solid stance in the
question of nuclear power. Otherwise, the SPD was shutting itself off from
a joint path to Bonn. Hoehn opposed Schroeder's suggestion to offer the
town of Arhaus, North Rhine-Westphalia as a site for a temporary nuclear
storage facility, as they already exist in other states.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-8>
<H1>
Repatriation of refugees dependent on more than marital status
</H1>
The minister of the interior on North Rhine-Westphalia, Mr. Kniola, has
proposed that the repatriation of Bosnian refugees be dependent not only
on their marital status. In an interview with the newspaper KOELNER
STADTANZEIGER, Mr. Kniola promoted his plans to change the conditions for
repatriation. He believes that the central question should be if the
Bosnian destinations were ready to take in the returning refugees. He
plans to represent his position at the conference of all state ministers
of the interior which is to be held some time soon. Following his
negotiations in Washington, Secretary of State Schelter announced
that the USA have agreed to take in  5,000 Bosnian refugees who do not
currently have a residence permit in Germany, and who will not be able to
return to their home for a while.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-9>
<H1>
Teufel and Stoiber introduce plans for Autobahn road toll
</H1>
The prime ministers of Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria,
Mr. Teufel and Mr. Stoiber, support plans for the introduction of a
road toll vignette. The newspaper STUTTGARTER ZEITUGN reports that the
two state governments plan an initiative in the Bundesrat to introduce a
road toll on the Autobahn, despite the opposition from Finance Minister
Waigel and Minister of Transportation Wissmann. At the CSU state party
conference in April, Stoiber had expressed his opposition to the road
toll. In the meantime, the Bavarian ministry of transportation has come to
the conclusion that the revenue collected would exceed the cost of the
project, the newspaper reports further.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-10>
<H1>
Real estate can be inherited without property return proposal
</H1>
More and more distant relatives of former home owners in East
Germany are being certificates of inheritance issued and thus acquire real
estate without having to file a proposal for the return of former
property. The newspaper LEIPZIGER VOLKSZEITUNG reports that the
Leipzig Association for Apartments and Buildings has lost about 400
houses, with 3,000 apartments, to unexpected heirs to date.
The losses for the association are estimated to be in the hundreds of
millions. Under the former GDR regime, only first and second order heirs
were eligible to inherit real estate. Third order heirs, who formerly had
no case, can now have their inheritance claim certified at the inheritance
court without problem.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-10-11>
<H1>
Overall crime rate in Germany is decreasing
</H1>
The news magazine DER SPIEGEL reports that the crime rate in
Germany has decreased slightly during the past year. However, there has
been an alarming increase in crime in the areas of underage crime, drugrelated crimes, and business crime, which have increased by 12, 18, and
24 per cent, respectively. The magazine cites a statistical report
published by the police, which is to be introduced by Minister of
the Interior Kanther, next week.

