<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-1>
<H1>
Schroeder: No reduction in austerity package
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder will, in his own words, "undertake no reduction of
the government's austerity package". A tough consolidation of finances is
necessary, Schroeder said from Bonn. The coalition must be prepared to
take a hit in the polls resulting from the dissatisfaction of special
interest groups affected by the austerity measures, the Chancellor said.
He characterized this course of action as significant to the future of
Germany. Schroeder rejected the proposal of State Premier Beck of
Rhineland-Palatinate to agree to adjust wages and salaries only to
compensate for inflation for a period of two years.
In further remarks, the Chancellor said the results of the government's
foreign and security policies could be seen. In Kosovo, he said, the time
has arrived to start organizing the reconstruction. Schroeder intends to
travel to the region himself at the end of the month, in order to
personally assess the situation. He encouraged the Serbian opposition,
urging them to continue their resistance to Serbian President Milosevic.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-2>
<H1>
EU Commission lifts part of ban on British beef
</H1>
The EU-Commission has largely lifted the export ban on British beef.
Starting in August, boneless meat from cattle born after August 1996 may
be exported. The German government criticized the resolution. In Bonn, a
spokesperson for the Ministry of Agriculture explained the decision came
too soon, adding that there are still doubts as to the reliability of the
British inspection system. In Britain, there are still 300 head of cattle
suffering from BSE, said the spokesperson. The North Rhine-Westphalian
Minister for the Environment Hoehn called the lifting of the ban
irresponsible.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-3>
<H1>
Book pricing policy to continue for now
</H1>
The agreement fixing book prices between Germany and Austria remains in
force for the time being. The EU commission postponed the decision without
setting a new deadline for action. The Commissioner for Competition, van
Miert, said they were a vote short of the majority needed to ban the price
fixing arrangement. The German book trade association announced they would
be negotiating with the EU in coming months. According to a spokesperson,
the association expects the price fixing arrangement to only be taken up
again by the new EU Commission under President Prodi.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-4>
<H1>
Schroeder visits Buchenwald concentration camp memorial
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder paid a visit to the Buchenwald concentration camp
memorial this evening, laying a wreath at the site. Approximately 260,000
persons were imprisoned in the former Nazi concentration camp between 1937
to 1945, 56,000 of whom lost their lives. Prior to visiting the camp, the
Chancellor had visited the nearby Goethe House in Weimar.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-5>
<H1>
Court declares some intelligence agency powers unconstitutional
</H1>
The German Foreign Intelligence Agency (BND) may continue its electronic
monitoring of international radio traffic. This according to a decision
handed down by the Federal Constitutional Court. The court supported the
expanded powers the BND was granted in 1994 in principle, but declared
them in part unconstitutional. Among other things, the intelligence agency
may turn over its findings to governmental authorities only under a more
limited set of conditions. The federal government welcomed the judgement,
but it was criticized by the plaintiffs, among them a professor of
criminal law.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-14-6>
<H1>
Rau receives Ciampi as first official guest
</H1>
The new German President Johannes Rau received Italian Prime Minister
Ciampi in Berlin, his first official visitor since taking office. Ciampi
is visiting Germany for two days. He is promoting a common economic policy
for the EU, saying stability and growth must be linked. For too long now,
the countries of Europe have been losing their ability to compete against
the largest industrial nations of the world, he said. Ciampi then
continued his visit, heading to Frankfurt today. The Bundeswehr (German
Armed Forces) welcomed President Rau to his new office with full military
honors this morning.

