<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-1>
<H1>
Coalition talks concluded
</H1>
Some hope that everything will change after the election, others fear it,
depending on viewpoint. However, after the conclusion of the coalition
talks it looks like the accents will be shifted rather than radical
changes implemented. A case in point today are the decisions regarding
social politics. The future red-green government wants to reverse some of
the social reforms of the old government and, within the next two years,
implement its own reforms in the areas of health and pensions. If the
pension reforms of the old government are abandoned, there will be no cut
in disability compensation and no so-called demographic component, a cut
in pension benefits from 70 to 64 percent, on January 1st 1999. This was
an election promise of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) which the Greens
have rejected so far because it there are no funds to pay for this.
However, the Greens had to compromise on this point in the coalition
agreement. Gunda Roestel, spokesman for the Green Party made this more
palatable by the consolation that the new government wants to implement a
new pension reform by the year 2000. "What has been dragged out by the
current government for 16 years, the new red-green government will
implement within two years a comprehensive structural social security
reform which includes all the things that are important to us, such as
independent pensions for women, inclusion of part time workers,
accounting for the demographic change. It was a compromise to put on hold
any cuts in payments until then."

<P>
No cuts in social security payments - that costs money. But where should
the money come from if the contributions are supposed to remain stable?
For one, employers will be required to pay insurance for 620 Mark jobs in
the West, 520 Mark jobs in the East which have become very popular in the
past years, not always within the parameters of the law. These jobs have
been a problem to the old government, the new one wants to tackle it, but
doesn't know yet how to do it. Future Family Minister Christine Bergmann
(SPD) tried to talk her way out of that: "We said clearly that we want
insurance for the 620/529 Mark jobs. But how exactly that should be done,
can be discussed. There might be special exemptions for students, for
example. The insurance doesn't have to cover 100 percent, it could be 85
percent of the jobs that will require insurance." It is possible, Ms.
Bergman said, to replace the present standard tax by the social security
tax, as in Austria. But this will obviously lead to a drop in tax
revenue. The question of finances overall is the main factor making
things difficult to keep election promises, particularly in the area of
additional medical aid payments by contributors. Chronically ill and
elderly people are supposed to be  relieved of these payments starting
next year. It is not clear yet by how much. Everybody else the current
ruling will remain in effect. At least for now, the SPD and the Greens
say, because by January 1, 2000 health reform will have been decided.
Until then, the new government wants to discontinue direct billing for
dental prosthetics. Prosthetics for juveniles born after 1978 will be
paid by the insurance. For the planned health reform, the future
coalition partners want to take recourse to proposals such the "positive
list" that several Ministers of Health have struggled with, where
insurances pay only for listed drugs.

<P>

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-2>
<H1>
Transrapid not "dead"
</H1>
The traffic related policy concepts of red-green by no means spell the
end of the transrapid, said the future Minister of Transportation, Mr.
Muentefering (SPD). The magnetic high-speed rail technology will be
further developed no matter what.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-3>
<H1>
No increase in rent allowances
</H1>
The increase in the allowance for rent demanded by the SPD and the Greens
for years does not seem to have a chance in 1999 with a red-green
government. Given empty and state coffers, the two parties did not make
any promises for a date. Rent allowance as well as rent law are scheduled
to be reformed within the next legislative period.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-4>
<H1>
Bundeswehr not to be used world-wide
</H1>
The German armed forces (Bundeswehr) should not become a world-wide
deployable army, according to Mr. Scharping (SPD) Minister of Defence
elect. The hallmark of the coalition's security politics will be
restraint.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-5>
<H1>
PDS starts coalition talks with maximal demands
</H1>
The Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS) plans to enter into coalition
talks with the SPD in Mecklenburg-Pomerania on Monday. State Premier
Holter demanded a distribution of posts oriented on the election result.
The SPD has 27, the PDS 20 seats in the parliament. Party president Bisky
had declared there should not be a second class coalition.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-6>
<H1>
Hundt sceptical but willing to talk about coalition for work
</H1>
Hundt, president of the Employers' Association, has made it clear
that in spite of his criticism of red-green government, he is willing to
talk about a coalition for work. But quantitative promises for employment
are impossible, he told the economic journal "Impulse".

<DOC de-news-1998-10-18-7>
<H1>
Von Weizsaecker: 30 more years of atomic energy
</H1>
The President of the Wuppertal institute for climate, environment and
energy, Mr. von Weizsaecker, does not think that it make sense to abandon
nuclear energy for another 30 years. He said that to abandon nuclear
energy puts a strain on the economy and consumers, while the risks in
neighbouring countries persist. The 30-year-path makes more sense even
ecologically, he believes.

