<DOC de-news-1999-11-06-1>
<H1>
Compensation for forced laborers under the Nazi regime
</H1>
The negotiations over compensation payments on former forced laborers
under the Nazi regime have apparently made headway. The negotiators from
the US and Germany, Eisenstat and Lambsdorff, announced that they had
found a formula to protect the German companies from further legal action,
and the results of this meeting justify continuing the talks. The next
round of
talks will take place during the middle of November in Germany. According
to Lambsdorff, the federal government is prepared to increase their
contribution to the compensation fund, which has been two billion German
Marks up to now. In comparison the German companies had rejected the
idea of paying the four billion Marks that had already been promised. The
representatives of the previous forced laborers had turned down the offer
of six billion Marks, saying that it was insufficient.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-06-2>
<H1>
Disagreement on atomic power within the federal government
</H1>
Reaching a quick settlement in the atomic power plant discussions is
apparently a prerequisite for the Green party to remain in the
government coalition. Bundesvorstandssprecherin Radcke stated in an
interview that a consensus must be reached by the beginning of next
year, otherwise the Greens will have to decide whether or not they
should stay in the coalition at the next special party convention. The
acting party chairman for the SPD, Mueller, proposed that the Greens
force the government to pass stronger security measures to force
nuclear power plants to discontinue production.  According to Mueller,
they need to make it financially unappetizing for the operating
authorities to maintain old atomic power plants. He feels that after
20 to 25 years nuclear power plants should only be allowed to continue
operating if they have been upgraded to comply with the latest
security measures.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-06-3>
<H1>
Power suppliers demand Schroeder take a position
</H1>
The German electricity industry demand that Chancellor Schroeder
exercise his authority in the negotiations on discontinuing nuclear
power production.

<P>
Veba committee head Hartmann told the "Welt am Sonntag" that the solo
statements Federal Minister of the Environment Trittin need to stop.
Hartmann accused Trittin of trying to stop the discussions by jamming
the talks with outlandish demands and threatened to end the talks
altogether.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-06-4>
<H1>
Commission payments from selling tanks
</H1>
The SPD has once again threatened the CDU with a fact-finding
committee to investigate commission payments after the sale of a tank
to Saudi Arabia.

<P>
Party head Struck told the "Bild am Sonntag" that the head of the CDU,
Schaeuble, as well as his predecessor Helmut Kohl and General
Secretary Angela Merkel must tell the public immediately what happened
to the Money (approximately one million DM) that the former treasurer,
Walter Liesler-Kiep, received from weapons dealer Schreiber, which was
apparently paid into a CDU election campaign fund. According to
Struck, if the information they receive is unsatisfactory the SPD will
set up a fact-finding committee to investigate. The Augsburg public
prosecutors are already investigating Kiep. They are assuming that
Kiep kept the commission for himself without declaring it on his tax
returns. Kiep intends to turn over documents that will exonerate him
next week.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-06-5>
<H1>
Transrapid
</H1>
The state of Bavaria is apparently interested in a Transrapid train system.
According to "Focus” magazine, the government, German Railways, and
Lufthansa can envision a Transrapid route 42 km. long between the Munich
airport and the city center. Talks are supposed to begin in December. The
planned construction of a Transrapid route between Berlin and Hamburg is
in jeopardy because the cost of the project has exceeded projections.

