<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-1>
<H1>
Growing Criticism of Tax Reforms
</H1>
Opposition is growing against the tax reform proposed
by the governing coalition. The workers' unions announced
their disapproval of the plans. The union for public service
and transportation and union for chemical industry noted they
were especially opposed to taxation of overtime compensation
for work during the night, as well as on Sundays and
holidays. The chair of the union for public service and
transportation, May, explained that with this measure the
government was going to raise two additional billion Marks in
tax revenue, but it would also place a financial burden on
those who already were exposed to extraordinary pressures in
their professional lives. He added that the proposed changes
would also increase the financial burden on employers, as
overtime pay would become not only taxable, but there would
also be payments for welfare insurance. The union for
chemical industries accused Finance Minister Waigel of having
broken his promise in this context, because just a year ago,
he had given his assurance that such plans were not to be
taken under consideration.
At an event in Munich, the chair of the union for chemical
industries, Zwickel, noted that while those with lower
incomes were to feel a slight relief if the new regulations
took effect, the advantages for those with high incomes were
disproportionally higher. Zwickel considered such a
development unacceptable for a  political basis of social
equality. He added that in light of the high unemployment
rate, the government's suggestions for the tax reform could
only be interpreted as a poorly staged theatrical play.
The chief executive officer of the Association of German
Social Security Carriers (VDR), Franz Roland, writes in a
newspaper article that his association fears that with the
proposed tax reform there will also be a continually
increasing financial burden on social security recipients. He
explains that the reform will bring about a further decrease
in the ratio between social security premiums paid and
dividends received by each individual.
East German members of the CDU have again backed the
criticism of the tax reform. Saxony-Anhalt State Premier
Bergner, as well as Finance Minister Milbrat (sp?) criticized
the plan to made a continuation of financial aid for the
Eastern states dependent on an increase in the value added
tax.
The president of the employer association, Hundt, on the
other hand, expressed his support for Waigel and his
proposal. Hundt sees the tax proposal as a major step toward
a financial relief for the German economy. He added that the
proposed lower tax rates for business incomes are to be
viewed as a signal for foreign investors.
Waigel himself was optimistic that there will be ways to
realize his new tax concept. In an interview, he noted that
in the long run, the SPD would have to admit that the reform
was more sensible than the current system, in spite of the
public criticism. Waigel attacked the SPD's plan to prevent
the increases in value-added tax necessary to fund the tax
reform. Waigel accused Lafontaine, who had announced these
plans earlier, of using the strategy of scorched earth.
Waigel added that unofficially, the state premiers of SPD-
ruled states had already asked for an increase in VAT by at
least two per cent points.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-2>
<H1>
Kohl Refutes Criticism of Tax Reform
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl has refuted all criticism of the tax
reform proposed by the governing coalition. At the closing of
the CDU Hesse state party conference this afternoon in
Dieburg, Kohl explained that the reform was to be considered
a big deal. He elaborated that it constituted the first
attempt in decades to achieve changes in the current system,
such that performance would become profitable, again. The
Chancellor cautioned that unless tax rates in Germany were
lowered, many industries might migrate abroad. Kohl further
noted that a taxation of social security benefits was
justified. He explained that otherwise social security
recipients who had high secondary incomes had an advantage
over employees with similarly high incomes. Kohl called the
Social Democratic and Green Parties to present counterproposals, rather than simply criticizing his plan. He added
further that the churches would also have to add more to the
discussion than just a note of their general fear of
financial losses.
Bavarian State Premier Stoiber has voiced his support of a
state-wide employment pact. During his speech at an event
commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Bavarian union
for metal, engineering and electronics in Munich, Stoiber
called employers and unions to re-engage in their
negotiations for a decrease in unemployment. The Bavarian
employment pact had shown that things were on the right
track, Stoiber noted. The chair of the union for metal,
engineering and electronics, Zwickel, again spoke against
further Chancellor-assisted wage negotiation rounds. He
accused employers and government of letting the unions'
initiatives for a pact for employment fail purposefully.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-3>
<H1>
Reports of CDU/CSU Plans For Further Tax Increase
</H1>
The news magazine "Der Spiegel" reports that CDU and
CSU may be considering further tax increases, in order to
fund the reforms in tax and social security laws. Besides an
increase in the value-added tax, the governing coalition is
also considering increases in the taxes on gasoline,
cigarettes, and brandy. The report further suggests that CSU
state group leader Glos hopes to be able to resolve his
disagreements with Minister of Employment Bluem (CDU),
concerning funding for the tax reform. Glos plans to close
the financial gap with tax revenue from the sources listed
above. In an interview with the newspaper "Bild am Sonntag,"
Bluem denied rumors of his possible resignation.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-4>
<H1>
Bundesrat To Increase Pressure on Scientology Sect
</H1>
The newspaper "Bild" reports that the Bundesrat plans
to increase pressure on Scientology. The paper cites a
proposal drafted by Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg, which
calls for the withdrawal of legal capacity from Scientology
groups which operate as profit-oriented businesses. If the
proposal passes, events organized in part or whole by members
of Scientology, will not be able to be subsidized with public
funds, any more. Meanwhile, the central office of Scientology
in Los Angeles has approached the European Commission for
Human Rights in Strasbourg. Scientology is filing a
complaint, as it believes that its members are discriminated
against by the German government.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-5>
<H1>
Lowest New Debt In Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
A statistics reports presented by Prime Minister
Teufel today shows that Baden-Wuerttemberg has the lowest new
debt among all German states. According to the report, Baden-
Wuerttemberg had a loan finance quotient of 3.2 per cent,
during the past year. The loan finance quotient is the
portion of the budget which is funded through loans. During
the upcoming year, the quotient is to be lowered further, to
3.0 per cent. The worst quotient of all German states was
calculated for Bremen. There, the total percentage of funding
from loans was 22 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-6>
<H1>
Brandenburg CDU Chair Wagner Re-Elected
</H1>
The Brandenburg CDU has re-elected its current
chairman, Mr. Wagner. 152 representatives voted for the 50-
year-old pediatrician this afternoon at the CDU state party
conference. Wagner's opponent, the latest minister of
economics of the GDR, Pohl, received 83 votes. Wagner had
taken over the post of party leader last year on a temporary
basis, after the former state party chair, Hartfelder (sp?),
had resigned due to internal disagreements.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-7>
<H1>
Major Police Strike Against Organized Drug Trafficking
</H1>
In a major strike against organized drug
smuggling, police have temporarily arrested 66 persons this
morning. The police department in Rheinpfalz has enforced
arrest warrants for nine of the arrested. The strike was
directed against an organization of Albanian heroin dealers.
More than 300 police officers participated in the enforcement
of 17 arrest warrants and more than two dozen search
warrants. They took possession of about 300 grams of heroin,
cash, and a fire arm. Police have been investigating the
Albanian drug dealers, who have been smuggling heroin into
Germany, since last July. The gang has roughly 100 members
whose names are known to the police, and uses an unusually
high degree of violence. Its members are thought to be
responsible for a shoot-out in Ludwigshafen last July. The
gang further threatened several police officers with death.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-8>
<H1>
Six Per Cent Increase In New Car Registrations
</H1>
The federal department of motor vehicles reports
that about six per cent more cars than in 1995 have been
newly registered in Germany during the past year. During
1996, there was a total of over four million new
registrations. While there was an increase of 5.5 per cent in
personal vehicle registrations, truck registrations decreased
by 5.8 per cent. At 25 per cent, there also was a dramatic
increase in new registrations for motor bikes.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-9>
<H1>
Twenty Injured in Accident on Autobahn A 96
</H1>
At least twenty were injured in a mass accident on
the Autobahn between Munich and Lindau this morning. The
police department Oberbayern reports that within minutes,
more than 61 cars and one truck crashed into one another near
the town of Oberpfaffenhofen. At the time, the area was
heavily fogged. Many of the drivers had been going at speeds
much too high for the weather conditions. According to
initial reports, sixteen people were injured slightly, while
four suffered severe injuries. Similar, though less severe,
accidents also occurred on other highways this morning.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-25-10>
<H1>
Croats Place Ban on Imports of German Cattle
</H1>
Following the case of BSE in North-Rhine Westphalia,
Croat authorities have put a ban on all imports of cattle and
beef products from Germany. The ministry of agriculture in
Zagreb is further prohibiting all transport of such products
through Croatia. The ministry has advised officials to
conduct strict controls on all animals imported from Germany
during the past months. Croatia had stopped importing cattle
and beef from Great Britain about two years ago.

