<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-1>
<H1>
Movement in the battle over tax reform
</H1>
The Bundestag faction spokesman for Buendnis 90/the Greens, Fischer, sees
the opportunity for an agreement in the debate on tax reform. In an interview with the Hamburg news magazine "Der Spiegel" he said that he believed
there was a possibility for unity according to the most recent offer from
the ruling coalition, moreover with little or no reduction in take-home
pay. For this to occur, however, he stated that the solidarity tariff must
remain in full effect. The leader of the FDP, Solms, on the other hand
sees precious little chance for a tax reform before the next Bundestag
elections. He told the "Bild-Zeitung" that his party would not stand in
the way of an increase in the mineral oil tax. An increase in the VAT of
one percent would only be acceptable if pension reform were settled, and
excess income were exclusively set against reduction in the pension
payment. Solms thus set himself against the plans of the CDU-CSU to raise
the VAT two percent and simultaneously raise the mineral oil tax. The
solidarity tariff, he stressed, must be reduced by two percent as the
Union has agreed.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-2>
<H1>
Stoiber voices thoughts on the EU agreement and the Euro timetable
</H1>
Taxes or the Euro -- the themes are fractious, above all between the
government and the opposition. But they also foment discord within the
coalition, even though there is no new proposal to be made. Bavaria's
Premier Stoiber again voiced his views on the EU timetable in the case
that either France or Germany to not fulfill the stability criteria.
According to Stoiber in an interview with the "Bild-Zeitung", in this
case the planned introduction of the Euro in 1999, the planned date of
introduction, would not be possible. The project should not be allowed
to wither, but delayed. Bavaria's Premier lobbied for the use of the
years 1998 and 1999 as additional test years for the achievement of the
criteria. On this plan the currency union would commence on
1 January 2001. Distribution of the specie could begin as planned in
2002. The second Europe-related theme in Stoiber's newspaper interview
was the German contribution to the Brussels EU budget. Stoiber demanded
the reduction of this sum. In his opinion it cannot remain set by the
current guidelines. Germany's enormous special payments in relation to
unification and the payment of billions to Russia have rendered it untenable that other countries such as Luxembourg, Denmark and Belgium be
sustained by Germany's EU payments. As he put it, if Germans have to save
in all aspects of life, they cannot support Europe. Bavaria's leader
opined that a new financial index must be sought, in agreement with
European neighbors.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-3>
<H1>
Kinkel sharply criticizes judgement of the Serbian constitutional court
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel sharply criticized the constitutional court in the Serbian portion of Bosnia against President
Plavsic. He said that the judgement was juridically suspect and
influenced by Serb leader Karadzic. According to Kinkel the dissolution
of the Parliament by President Plavsic, as well as the calling of new
elections was completely legal.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-4>
<H1>
Proposals of the Employers' Organization President on unemployment
</H1>
The continuing record unemployment in Germany has very disparate causes,
and politicians formulate their suggestions for the creation of new jobs
according to their viewpoint and vested interests. Employers' Organization President Hundt said in a newspaper interview today that the unemployed must be better motivated and at the same time put under more
pressure through introducing time limits to unemployment benefits and
social aid. The Organization President suggested unifying social and
unemployment aid and limiting their duration to one year, for example.
The Employers' Organization chair also would like to see the aid for
asylum seekers limited. These methods should increase the urge to accept
work. Hundt sees the reason for the high unemployment numbers lying in
the German system. Current opportunities for taking unemployment aid
until pension age leads to lounging on the social doormat according to
Hundt. The President's solution for the creation of new jobs  rests on
two cruxes. Above all the first step must be the setting of time
limits on all social aid., in order to reduce ancillary labor costs.
Health insurance must pay only for absolute medical necessities.
The second point is that the official social benefits must be reduced.
The timetable for minimizing social and unemployment payments should be
offset by the so-called "Combi-pay", according to Hundt. In this way the
portion of responsibility for able-bodied unemployed borne by the state
would be reduced. Success of his plan is assured in Hundt's mind. Such a
creation of employment funds would create new jobs in industry and
service sectors in prolific numbers, according to him.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-5>
<H1>
Bubis criticizes regulations for compensation in the pension law
</H1>
The head of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Bubis, has demanded
that those persecuted by the Nazi regime in Eastern Europe be compensated
quickly. On "Deutschlandradio Berlin" Bubis opposed the stance of the
Federal government, according to which those affected by global payments
to Poland, Russia and the Ukraine have already been recompensed.
The victims have not seen a penny of this sum. Bubis spoke of the
advanced age of most of the victims and referred to a biological problem.
If something were not to occur directly, this matter will be resolved in
another manner, that is to say the people would simply die. The leader
of the Central Council criticized the fact that only for those who live
in Germany can reparations be covered in pension law.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-6>
<H1>
Police arrest nine in Thuringia
</H1>
Police arrested nine from the extremist right scene in Thuringia.
According to a spokesman they are accused of racial persecution as well
as the use of symbols of unconstitutional organizations. The police in
Thuringia ordered successful street controls for the weekend, because of
the tenth anniversary of the death of Hitler's lieutenant Hess. Rightist
organizations held numerous commemorations and demonstrations, which were
banned by the authorities.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-16-7>
<H1>
Missing child found dead
</H1>
For three weeks the police have searched for the twelve year old
Sebastian Heinze from Plauen. The boy was missing since he ran away from
his parents on a mountain tour. Yesterday mushroom gatherers found the
corpse of the child on the mountain Stauffen near Berchtesgaden. It lay
in a trackless region and showed no outward sign of injury, and the
police have concluded that he fell from the mountain, rather than fell
victim to an attack. Earlier the opinion was that the twelve year old
had died of exhaustion, as well as lack of water and food after he ran
away from his parents after an argument.

