<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-1>
<H1>
Sven Koerppen admits involvement in Fischmann kidnapping
</H1>
In the Fischmann (sp?) trial at the Frankfurt State Court,
codefendant Sven Koerppen admitted to his involvement in the kidnapping. The
27-
year-old said he and his father had abducted Jakob Fischmann but emphasized
that he had not known about the consequent murder of the businessman. Sven
Koerppen and his father Rainer are accused of blackmailing and kidnapping.
Rainer Koerppen is also standing trial for murder and his son for aiding
and abetting.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-2>
<H1>
Unemployment rate decreases slightly
</H1>
Unemployment in Germany fell slightly in September. According to
several news agencies which obtained the numbers before the official
release of
the September job market report, the rate decreased from 11.4 percent in
August
to 11.2 percent, bringing the number of registered unemployed to 4.3
million.
Experts anticipate that continuing mass unemployment will force the federal
government to spend at least five billion marks more this year than are
designated in the 1997 budget addendum. According to the newspaper
Handelsblatt,
the federal government now anticipates an annual average of 4.45 million
unemployed.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-3>
<H1>
50,000 young Germans still unable to start apprenticeship
</H1>
Four weeks into the new job-training year, almost 50,000 young Germans
still
have not found a place to begin an apprenticeship. According to Federal
Employment Office statistics obtained by the German press agency dpa, only
25,000 positions are still available. The Association of German Labor
Unions
(DGB) warned the federal government and businesses not to downplay the
situation
on the market for apprenticeship positions.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-4>
<H1>
DGB leader Schulte considers alliance for new jobs unlikely
</H1>
The leader of the Association of German Labor Unions (DGB), Schulte, does
not
consider a renewed alliance for new jobs likely. In an interview with
Deutschlandfunk radio, Schulte said that such an alliance was desirable in
principle but that he currently did not see possibilities for discussing
the
idea with the federal government. He called on businesses to indicate their
willingness to create more jobs soon. Despite the policy of restrain with
regard
to wage increases, there had been very few increases in jobs.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-5>
<H1>
New labor union holds first convention
</H1>
The chairman of the chemical workers union IG Chemie, Schmoldt,
anticipates the focus of future negotiations to remain in safeguarding
employment and wages. At the first convention of the newly-founded labor
union
IG Bergbau-Chemie-Energie (mining, chemical, and energy industries) in
Hanover,
Schmoldt said that this strategy should not be abused in order to sneak in
social and economic redistribution. At the union's convention in Hamburg,
the
head of the construction workers' union IG Bau, Wiesehuegel, had earlier
named
safeguarding jobs as the most important goal. Like Schmoldt, he rejected
demands
for higher wage agreements that had been raised by the leader of the
metalworkers' (IG Metall), Zwickel, and others. In Hanover, SPD chairman
Oskar
Lafontaine said he understood Zwickel's position and that restrain in
negotiating pay raises should not be allowed to become permanent. In
reaction,
politicians from the governing coalition expressed their incomprehension.
In
Bonn, CDU secretary general Hintze accused Lafontaine of using a strategy
of
social unrest. FDP chairman Gerhardt said this was the clearest sign of
lacking
economic comprehension within the SPD in ten years.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-6>
<H1>
Hintze demands lower taxes in exchange for abolishment of loopholes
</H1>
According to the government parties CDU and FDP, tax loopholes cannot
be abolished without also lowering taxes. Following a meeting of the party
executive board, CDU secretary general Hintze said that these items would
both have to be part of the grand tax reform. FDP chairman Gerhardt said a
cancellationo of tax privileges without lowering tax rates would not be
considered by his party because otherwise the measurement would be nothing
but a tax hike. The Bavarian minister of finance, Huber (CSU), had welcomed
a proposal by the SPD's new finance coordinator Eichel, according to which
initially only tax loopholes should be closed. Huber announced a joint
procedure by the federation, the Social Democrats, and the Bavarian state
government for this week.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-7>
<H1>
Upcoming CDU party convention in Leipzig
</H1>
At the upcoming CDU party convention in Leipzig, the party will
not
officially discuss a new candidacy for chancellor of party chairman and
incumbent Helmut Kohl. The party's secretary general Hintze said in Bonn
that
there were no plans for a formal vote and that he was convinced that Kohl
enjoyed the support of all Christian Democrats. Hintze called demands by
the
head of the Junge Union, Escher, that Kohl step down from his position as
party
chairman next year, nonsensical and unsolidaristic.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-06-8>
<H1>
"Oeger Tours" offers transportation for tourists stranded in Turkey
</H1>
Since Saturday, the travel company "Oeger Tours" has organized the
return of more than 500 tourists. Following the bankruptcy of the
Frankfurtbased company "Sonnenexpress," the tourists had been stranded in Turkey.
Those
still waiting to return to Germany will fly back from Antalya and Dalaman
airports within the next few days. A spokesperson for "Oeger-Tours" stated
that
trips to Turkey already booked with "Sonnenexpress" but not yet taken could
be
changed to "Oeger." According to "Sonnenexpress," its Turkish owner had
declared
insolvency on Saturday and immediately ceased all business activity.

