<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-1>
<H1>
Ethnic cleansing in Kosovo on increase
</H1>
The expulsion of ethnic Albanians from Kosovo has increased again in the
past few days. This was reported by the UN's refugee aid organization. At
the same time, a spokesperson for the UN High Commission on Refugees
emphasized that Kosovars arriving in Macedonia and Albania are giving
reports of new massacres in their homeland. NATO Secretary-General Solana
said from Brussels that the alliance was not in a position to help the
refugees in Kosovo at present. It would be too dangerous for pilots to
airdrop food and supplies.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-2>
<H1>
Annan meets with Schroeder while Scharping confers in Moscow
</H1>
UN Secretary-General Annan directed criticism at the increasing number of
civilian fatalities resulting from the NATO air raids on Yugoslavia. Annan
made this clear yesterday during a meeting in Berlin with Chancellor
Schroeder. Shortly before, NATO had regretfully confirmed that a missile
inadvertently struck a populated area in the village of Surdulica
yesterday. According to Serbian accounts, at least 16 people are dead.
Diplomatic efforts for peace were the central focus of the discussion
between Annan and Schroeder. The UN Secretary-General laid particular
emphasis on the importance of the UN Security Council once again speaking
with a unified voice. Annan now continues on to negotiations in Moscow,
where German Defense Minister Scharping today conferred with, among
others, Russian Special Envoy Chernomyrdin, who is expected to arrive in
Germany tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-3>
<H1>
Former GDR functionaries obtain higher pensions
</H1>
Former functionaries of the GDR can count on more retirement pay,
according to a judgement of the Federal Constitutional Court. The court in
Karlsruhe rejected several adjustments to the GDR supplementary and
special pensions. Among other things that were rejected were overall
reductions for persons "close to the system" such as judges, police, and
persons who worked for the Stasi. The number of those affected by the
judgement was estimated at 330,000. The PDS called this a victory for
justice over politically motivated arbitrariness. Organizations of victims
of the GDR government expressed criticism for the decision, saying it was
absurd that people who worked for the Stasi should now receive special
pensions. State Premier Vogel of Thuringia advocated a third position; he
told the radio station "Deutschlandradio Berlin", that while the judges
did certainly make corrections, they had in fact on the whole affirmed the
adjustments to the special pensions. The victims of the GDR dictatorship
could be satisfied with that.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-4>
<H1>
Federal Finance Court says tax bracket gap unconstitutional
</H1>
The Federal Finance Court held that the difference between the top
commercial tax bracket and the top private one to be unconstitutional. The
judges handed down this opinion today in Munich with a reference to the
principle of equality under constitutional law. Business income cannot be
treated preferentially. If the Federal Constitutional Court agrees with
this assessment, then it will place a second definite source of strain on
the public budget, on top of the reorganization of taxes on families. The
chair of the federal finance committee, Green party politician Scheel,
spoke of serious consequences for the coalition's plans. Meanwhile in
Bonn, the FDP submitted a proposal under the motto "More profit for all"
which provides for tax reductions on a broad front.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-5>
<H1>
Trittin still opposed to Transrapid
</H1>
Environment Minister Trittin continues to advocate abandoning development
of the Transrapid maglev train. The project is simply much too expensive,
he told the magazine "max". This may also be the conclusion of the new
Finance Minister, Eichel. Despite this, two days ago the Ministry of
Transport stressed that it was still committed to construction of a
Transrapid line between Hamburg and Berlin.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-6>
<H1>
SNCF strike has consequences for German rail traffic
</H1>
A strike by employees of the French rail system greatly impacted rail
traffic today, especially in the vicinity of Paris. According to the SNCF
(the French national rail company) the schedule for the high speed Thalys
service between Paris, Brussels, and Germany had to be limited. The
walkout of engineers and mechanics will continue tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-7>
<H1>
Victims of GDR injustice to receive better compensation
</H1>
Victims of injustice in the former GDR are to receive greater
remunerations in the future. This was announced by the federal
commissioner for the former East German states, Schwanitz (sp?). The
remuneration for political prisoners shall therefore be raised in the
future to 600 DM per month of detention. Surviving family members of
deceased victims will be better provided for, and the acknowledgement of
health problems stemming from imprisonment will be made easier. The law
will enter into force next year at the latest.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-28-8>
<H1>
Steel and engineering industry employers fear loss of 70,000 jobs
</H1>
Employers in the steel and engineering industry fear the loss of as many
as 70,000 jobs this year. Werner Stumpfe, head of Gesamtmetall (employers'
association for the industry) explained this as the result of the 3.2%
increase in the collective wage agreement, which was too large. Vice
President Peters of the industry employees' union, IG Metall, criticized
Stumpfe's sense of panic in light of the (in Peters' words) "glowing
profit situation" in the industry.

