<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-1>
<H1>
SPD party conference in Bonn
</H1>
Gerhard Schroeder, chancellor-elect and Oskar Lafontaine, the chairman of
the SPD, plan to jointly share the work of governing. At the SPD's special
conference in Bonn, both politicians strongly denied that there was
dissension of any form between them. Messrs. Schroeder and Lafontaine
rallied support for the coalition agreement among the 500 delegates. Mr.
Schroeder referred to the new regulation regarding dual citizenship as well
as the withdrawal from atomic energy instituted on the insistence of the
Greens, but it was cleaar that the agreement on the whole emphasised the SPD
program. Mr. Lafontaine stressed that cutbacks in social welfare would be
reversed, adding that negative developments in sick pay and "bad weather"
payments would also be addressed by the new government.

<P>
Several delegates criticised the coalition agreement during the debate, in
particular, individual items of the agreement. Mr. Clement, state premier of
North Rhine Westphalia, demanded that the planned tax reform be amended.
Despite this, the overwhelming majority of delegates supported the coalition
agreement with the Green party. Only one of the delegates of the over five
hundred present voted against the agreement; three delegates abstained from
the vote. This clears the way for Gerhard Schroeder to be elected chancellor
in the lower house of parliament (Bundestag) on Tuesday. The trademarks of
the new government, Mr. Schroeder said, would be a departure from the old,
and the innovation of new polices. He said, "We will make a new start for
Germany". Mr. Schroeder also appealed to employers to co-operate on the new
"Alliance for Work".

<P>
The Greens had already approved the coalition agreement the day before. The
agreement between the two parties is fifty pages long. The most important
points include instituting an ecological tax reform, decreasing taxes for
employers and reversing laws passed by the previous government regarding
reductions in sick pay. Furthermore, planned reductions to pension levels
will also be withdrawn. Other points of interest include the long-term
withdrawal from nuclear energy and a new law regarding dual citizenship.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-2>
<H1>
Rau is SPD's candidate for German president
</H1>
The SPD leadership has agreed to nominate Johannes Rau, former state premier
of North Rhine Westphalia, for the office of German president. According to
"Westdeutsche Rundfunk" radio, Mr. Rau is going to be nominated by  the SPD
party executive on November 2nd as the successor to Roman Herzog. The
election for German president is scheduled for May 23rd next year.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-3>
<H1>
Personnel changes in the Green party
</H1>
Kerstin Mueller and Rezzo Schlauch are the new spokespersons for the Green
Party's parliamentary group. Green members of parliament elected the two by
a large majority and without opposing candidates at a closed meeting in
Bonn. Mr. Schlauch (51) will be replacing Joschka Fischer who is to be the
Minister of Foreign Affairs in the new government. Ms. Mueller (34) will
have the same rights as Mr. Schlauch and represents the left wing of the
party. The new secretary general of the Greens is the budget expert Kristin
Heyne (46). As expected, Antje Vollmer was nominated once more as the
Green's candidate for vice-president of the Bundestag.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-4>
<H1>
Disagreement amongst the trade unions
</H1>
There is apparent disagreement among the trades union regarding policies on
wage tariffs and the role that wage policies should play in the planned
"Alliance for Work". The Union for Trade, Bank and Insurance Employees (HBV)
and the Media Union (IG-Medien) are against further wage concessions. Both
unions announced at their general conferences in Bremen and Wuerzburg that
they would be taking a hard line in wage negotiations in 1999 and that they
supported the Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics (IG Metall) in
their call for an end to restraint.

<P>
According to Mr. Hensche, head of the Media Union, an Alliance for Work
cannot demand that unions sacrifice the income of their members for an
imaginary employment policy for Germany. The chairman of the union
furthermore called for more involvement on behalf of the state in combating
long-term unemployment. According to Mr. Hensche, the unemployed should not
be forced to take on so-called "messenger" jobs.

<P>
The head of the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) has, however, called
for moderate wage demands in exchange for tax relief and reductions in
secondary wage costs.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-5>
<H1>
Refugees apprehended
</H1>
The police have once more apprehended illegal refugees in Bavaria. Last
night while investigating a truck they discovered nine Iraqis who had
travelled to Germany via Austria. The refugees and the driver (27) were all
arrested. The Iraqis will be immediately deported to Austria. The driver
will appear in court tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-6>
<H1>
Accident on the Rhine
</H1>
Several tons of gasoline have leaked into the Rhine after two tankers
collided on the Rhine near Bad Salzig. According to the river police, a four
metre-long hole was ripped in the side of one of the tankers. The entire
load leaked out, provoking an acute risk of explosion. The affected area of
the Rhine had to be closed to maritime traffic.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-25-7>
<H1>
Computer hacker Tron is found dead
</H1>
Police are investigating the death of the computer hacker Tron. They hope to
discover whether the 26-year old was a victim of a crime, assumes the Chaos
Computer Club. Tron was one the best hackers in the scene. At present the
police are assuming that he committed suicide.

