<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-1>
<H1>
Germany to strive for new spirit of cooperation with Iran
</H1>
When Germany takes its turn in the presidency of the European Union,
during the first six months of 1999, it will work to establish a new
foundation for cooperation with Iran. German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel
made that assurance to his Iranian counterpart, Kamal Kharrazi, at a
meeting on the fringes of the UN General Assembly in New York. Kinkel
subsequently told journalists that Teheran was especially interested in
discussion cooperation in matters of energy, the environment, combatting
the illegal drug trade, as well as the refugee problem.
Kinkel also welcomed an announcement by Iranian President Mohammed Khatami
that the writ issued by the late revolutionary leader Ayatollah Khomeini
for the execution of writer Salman Rushdie could now be considered
nullified; Kinkel called it a step in the right direction.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-2>
<H1>
German electricity providers warn of cost of abandoning nuclear power
</H1>
The German electrical companies have pointed out the a high price would
have to be paid if the country moved quickly away from using nuclear
energy. The state would have to pay damages in the billions of D-Marks,
and consumers could expect higher electrical bills, according to the
managing director of the Association of German Electrical Works, Eberhard
Meller, speaking in Frankfurt.
Earlier in Bonn, environmental groups had reiterated calls to abandon
nuclear energy immediately, saying that the risks associated with it were
so great that Germany could not afford to wait five or ten more years.
The SPD environment critic, Mueller, announced that her party would act
quickly to take the first steps towards a nuclear-free power grid if the
SPD formed the government after next week's federal election.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-3>
<H1>
Siemens corporation also to establish fund for war-time forced labourers
</H1>
Following Volkswagen's lead, the Siemens corporation now also plans to
establish a restitution fund of 20 million DM for those forced into labour
there during World War II. The company announced that the money would be
directed to those who needed it quickly and without a lot of red tape. A
Siemens spokesman in Munich said that the fund, which was to be
administered by independent persons and organizations, could be
supplemented if the initial amount proved to be insufficient. Siemens has
placed the number of what it calls "workers against their own will"
employed there in 1944 at about 50,000.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-4>
<H1>
Report of right-wing extremism in East German army, secret police
</H1>
According to a report in the Berlin newspaper "Der Tagesspiegel", the
former East German National People's Army experienced hundreds of
occurrences of right-wing extremism. The authority overseeing East German
security files (Gauck-Behoerde) has found evidence to that effect in the
files of the former East German Ministry for State Security, as the
newspaper will publish in tomorrow's edition. Conscripts and officers
apparently organized celebrations and shouted Nazi slogans on Hitler's
birthday. Conflicts between right-wing and other soldiers are also
supposed to have occurred.
The report also speaks of similar occurrences within the secret police
force, the Stasi.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-5>
<H1>
Foreign Office calls on Germans to leave Lesotho
</H1>
The German Foreign Office has called on all Germans to leave Lesotho
immediately due to continuing battles in the southern African kingdom. A
representative of the German Embassy in The South African capital of
Pretoria has been sent to the border town of Ladybrand to advise departing
Germans.
At least 49 people have been killed in the fighting so far. Intervention
forces from South Africa and Botswana have encountered dogged opposition
from rebel soldiers. The foreign troops entered Lesotho Tuesday, on the
invitation of the national government, to end weeks of unrest and a mutiny
within the army.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-23-6>
<H1>
Dispute over pension payment for former postal workers
</H1>
Four days before the federal election, a dispute over pensions for former
postal workers has broken out. Federal Finance Minister Theo Waigel has
refuted a newspaper report claiming that, due to accounting errors, the
state would face a shortfall of billions of D-Marks beginning in 1999.
Waigel called the article so much election-campaign hot air, and said it
only served to confuse the people. The Finance Ministry added that it had
already been announced in July that 6 million DM of shares in the
privatized German Post corporation would be sold off in order to secure
the pensions.
Finance critics for the SPD and the Green Party accused Waigel of renewed
sleight-of-hand.

