<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-1>
<H1>
Germany supports USA in Iraq crisis
</H1>
 Germany supports the unwavering position of the USA against Iraq.
In the case of war, Germany will put its air bases at the disposition of
the USA, Chancellor Kohl stated at the 34th conference for security
policy, held in Munich.

<P>
Several American Senators expressed what is a predominant feeling in the
USA, namely that the European allies have left America alone in the fight
against the Iraqi dictator.  Unwilling to be associated with this group,
Chancellor Kohl responded that in times of need Germany would stand by
America's side.  In his speech, he made it clear that there is a limit to
all tolerance and, should a line be crossed, then the Americans deserve
full political support for assuming this responsibility.  This includes
the use of German air bases. The U.S. Secretary of Defense, Mr. Cohen,
noted the Chancellor's comments with satisfaction.  Mr. Kohl cautioned,
however, that the USA has to acknowledge that European thinking is
influenced by the consequences of a military attack.  In order to avoid
alienation from other members of the alliance, NATO members should address
controversial issues more openly in the future.

<P>
Federal Defense Minister Ruehe declined comment as to whether a German
involvement might extend beyond the use of air bases.  He said this was a
purely hypothetical matter and currently not an item on the agenda.  Mr.
Ruehe emphasized that efforts for a diplomatic solution must be continued.
He tried to be in accord with his French counterpart, Mr.  Richard. "The
Americans should expect that among Europeans this is considered a joint
problem, and the Europeans speak with a single voice, more than it may
appear."

<P>
Outside of the official meeting framework, Mr. Ruehe and Mr.  Cohen signed
the next stage of the Rowland-Patriot treaty.  The Bundeswehr will receive
33 ground-based anti-missile systems from the US.  In return the German
side assumes more responsibilities in potential future NATO missions.  The
treaty extends a German-American agreement from 1983.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-2>
<H1>
Green party nominates top candidates for federal election campaign
</H1>
 At the party convention, The Greens have nominated Uschi Eid and
Rezzo Schlauch as top candidates for the upcoming federal elections.  In
fact, there has only been one substitution on the list of the top eight
candidates, compared with 1994.  Former state party head of The Greens
Southwest, Winne Herrmann, is now ranked number four of this list.  He had
a surprising victory against the current member of Parliament, Juergen
Rochlitz.  Mr. Herrman persuaded more than 200 delegates in Aalen through
his objective elaborations on a thorough ecological policy that also
addresses economic and job market-related issues.  The general atmosphere
was governed by fact-oriented and non-emotional discussion between policy
makers in various fields which exerted a strong influence on the choice of
nominees.  With the exception of the health-policy expert Monika Knocher
on rank 5 of the national list, only members from the issue-oriented and
non-ideological wing, dubbed "Realos", were selected for the topmost
positions.  Under the German election system, the candidates highest on
the list have the greatest chance of winning a seat in the Bundestag.  The
leading candidates are the nation's most popular Green politicians with
considerable leverage in federal politics: Uschi Eid (1) and Rezzo
Schlauch (2).  In addition to them, Rita Grieshaber, Cem Oezdemir,
Angelika Koester-Lossak and Oswald Metzger can hope for a seat in
Parliament.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-3>
<H1>
New extortion against Nestle
</H1>
The food corporation Nestle is again the victim of extortion. The target
this time is the subsidiary Maggi.  In an anonymous letter, the
extortionist informed that he had poisoned a bag of soup in a supermarket
in Mainz.  The Mainz police issued a warning, and the soups in question
were removed from the shelves immediately.  In Muenster, investigations
involving another Nestle extortion case are under way.  The subsidaries
Thomy, Alete, and Maggi are all owned by Nestle.  The authorities in
Muenster passed the news about the supermarket extortionist to officials
in Mainz. According to the public prosecutor's office in Mainz, measures
are currently being taken to prevent further incidents. It is as yet
unknown how much money had been demanded, and whether there is a
connection to the other food extortion cases.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-4>
<H1>
Protests against NPD convention
</H1>
 More than 200 people protested today against a convention of the
right-extremist party NPD in Passau.  The police took about 50 people into
temporary custody.  NPD opponents had tried to prevent people from
entering the convention center, "Niebelungenhalle".  Two police officers
were slightly injured.  A spokesperson said that the protest march was for
the most part peaceful.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-5>
<H1>
German Ice-hockey team victorious in Nagano
</H1>
The German ice-hockey team had a lucky start into the Olympic ice-hockey
tournament.  The German national team, coached by George Kingston, won
against the host Japan, 3:1.  The team from Belarus is leading the list of
group B, winning against France, 4:0.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-6>
<H1>
World Championship Boxing in light-heavyweight canceled
</H1>
The world Championship boxing competition in the class light-heavyweight
between Graziano Rocchiciani and Michael Nunn, USA, scheduled for 22:50
tonight in the Max Schmeling Hall, Berlin has been canceled.  The
34-year-old professional boxer from Berlin, who was to receive 2 million
Marks for the fight, has been sick with a high fever (41 degrees Celsius)
since last night and cannot fight.  This was announced by a spokesperson
of the private TV station RTL which wanted to broadcast the event live at
22:05.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-07-7>
<H1>
Pop star Falco has died
</H1>
Falco, the Austrian pop musician, is dead. He died yesterday in the
Dominican Republic, which he chose as residence, after a car accident.  In
the 1980's Falco produced many successful hits, like "Jeannie" and "Der
Kommissar".  He came to international fame mostly through "Rock me
Amadeus".  Falco would have been 41 years old this month.

