<DOC de-news-1998-09-25-1>
<H1>
Coalition parties and SPD at loggerheads over budget and fiscal policies
</H1>
It's only two days till the federal elections, and there are vigorous
debates in the Upper House (Bundesrat) once again, between the coalition
parties and the SPD. Bone of contention: the 1999 budget.

<P>
During the Upper House's (Bundesrat) last session before the elections,
members once again ripped into the tax reform that wasn't to be. Finance
Minister Theo Waigel confirmed that sales tax would not have to rise to
pay for the tax-cuts planned by the current government, and he was also
confident that he would be able to realise these plans after the elections:
"I'm certain the Upper House (Bundesrat) won't say no to necessary reforms,
after this election campaign, but rather take responsibility for the state
as a whole, regardless of party boundaries."

<P>
The SPD has a majority in the Upper House (Bundesrat), so one of their
members, Hesse's State Premier Eichel, replied: "Yes to tax reforms, but
also going for broke as far as public budgets are concerned, before or after
the elections, won't work, dear Mr Waigel. And I'm very much inclined to
believe that you too will have a different view after the 27 September,
regardless of the job you might have then."

<P>
There was total disagreement on the 1999 draft budget. While Finance
Minister Waigel emphasised that it would systematically lower public debt
and reduce the state's quota of GDP, Mr Eichel stated that Mr Waigel
was not telling the whole truth, playing his cards close to to chest, and
that this was the reason why the fact that the draft would already be
unconstitutional would not be apparent

<DOC de-news-1998-09-25-2>
<H1>
Upper House (Bundesrat): disagreement on how to read Youth Report
</H1>
What does poverty in Germany mean? When Family Minister Claudia Nolte
published the report before the elections, and not as planned afterwards,
this caused a major discussion about how to define poverty. The report
had stated that in Germany one child out of 7 or 8 lived in poverty.
Ms Nolte: "Poverty is relative. According to statistics by economic
scientists, a German citizen on the social welfare benefit would be better
off than 50% of other Europeans. Of course you have to be thrifty when you're
on a social welfare benefit, but fortunately there is no demeaning poverty
in Germany."

<P>
Ms Christine Bergmann, State Senator for Family Affairs in Berlin and
minister designate in an SPD-led cabinet, disagreed, declaring that the
necessities of life meant more than being able to eat, drink and have a roof
over your head, it also included, for example, proper education and training.
In closing she said: "Children and young persons must be able to feel
that society expects something of them, and supplies them with education and
training providing the base so they can work and be responsible for
themselves. Currently the exact opposite is true, and you carry the can for
that."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-25-3>
<H1>
State Labour Office publishes preliminary labour market statistics
</H1>
This was the first time a state labour office published preliminary labour
market statistics, causing a bit of a stir. President Schade, of the
Stuttgart Labour Office, expects the number of unemployed to drop below
the 4 million mark till the end of September. The Federal Labour Office in
Nurnberg was surprised about someone else jumping the gun, but confirmed
the trend. SPD and the unions were furious, whereas government thought it
confirmed that their reform policies were working.

