<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-1>
<H1>
Netanyahu is visiting Germany
</H1>
In the opinion of the Israeli Ambassador to Germany, Mr. Primor, the peace
process in the Near East is irreversible.  On Deutschlandfunk radio this
morning, he reminded that the Netanyahu Administration is committed to this
policy.  However, the current government pursues a different line than its
predecessors.  This has worried the neighboring states and was also the reason
for the latest tensions in the region.  Mr. Netanyahu arrived for his first
official visit to Germany today.  He laid down a wreath at the memorial of the
former concentration camp of Bergen-Belsen before continuing his journey to
Bonn where he was received by Chancellor Kohl with military honors.
Mr. Netanyahu terminated his visit to Germany prematurely this evening and
returned to Tel Aviv, because of heavy riots in Israel.  In Bonn, Chancellor
Kohl expressed his concern, and appealed to both sides to avoid an escalation
of the uprising.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-2>
<H1>
NATO Defense Ministers continue consultations
</H1>
The Defense Ministers of the sixteen NATO member countries have continued
their consultations in the Norwegian town of Bergen.  The central topic was
the projected eastward extension of the Alliance and its relations to Russia.
The Russian Defense Minister Rodionov attended the concluding session of the
two day-long meeting.  Last night, the Alliance largely agreed on a new peace
mission in Bosnia with Russian participation, as Rodionov explained in Bergen
today.  His government is ready, he said, to initiate negotiations regarding a
new UN mandate immediately.  The mandate of the IFOR troops, which also
includes Russian soldiers, runs out on December 20.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-3>
<H1>
IG Metall plans nationwide protests
</H1>
The IG Metall [Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics] plans to stage
nationwide on October 24 against cuts in sick pay, the union's chairman,
Mr. Zwickel, said in front of union officials in Wuppertal.  He also reminded
the audience of the strike, which started in Schleswig-Holstein in 1956 and
through which the union achieved full salary payment on sick days.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-4>
<H1>
Cuts in government officials' sick pay rejected
</H1>
The Mediation Committee of Bundestag and Bundesrat continues to oppose cuts of
government officials' sick pay.  With its social-democratic majority, the
committee requested again to repeal the corresponding law.  The Minister of
the Interior, Mr. Kanther, criticized the position of the SPD in this case and
said that an approval of the law could have lowered the high rate of
illness-related absences in Germany's public services.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-5>
<H1>
Mercedes employees protest against cuts in sick pay
</H1>
 Employees of Daimler-Benz protested again today against the
intended cuts in salary payments during sick leave.  Already yesterday
afternoon the workers' representation of the production plants in
Untertuerkheim, Hedelfingen and Mettingen threatened with protests and worker
assembly against the intended cuts.  1500 workers of the plant in Mettingen
stopped working at 2pm yesterday, two hours early, and went home.  Also the
entire late shift followed the protests and at 6pm no machine was running in
Mettingen.  More protest have been announced, and extra shifts as well as
overtime hours are to be suspended at the car assembly lines in Sindelfingen
and Untertuerkheim.  Just for Sindelfingen, this would mean 800 cars less, per
week.  Demonstrations on the factory ground took place at several Mercedes
plants and at Alcatel-SEL in the region around Stuttgart today. After
Daimler-Benz, Siemens, Mannesmann and other companies announced cuts in sick
pay, starting October 1.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-6>
<H1>
Conference of bishops concluded
</H1>
The fall conference of the German bishops was concluded with ceremonial
prayers at the cathedral in Fulda yesterday evening.  Bishop Mueller of
Goerlitz conceded difficulties of the Catholic Church in the New States.
After decades of dictatorship, it is difficult to find one's way in the
freedom of a democratic society, the Bishop said.  The focus of the four-day
convention was the economic and social situation.  Bishop Lehmann, presiding
the conference, has said to inform the public in a press conference tomorrow
about the outcome of the discussions.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-7>
<H1>
Konstantin Wecker pronounced guilty of cocaine possession
</H1>
The song writer Konstantin Wecker of Munich was sentenced to two and a half
years in prison without probation on charges of cocaine possession.
Mr. Wecker had acquired large amounts of cocaine over the past year which he
then refined to crack.  According to the public prosecutor, he was charged
with 23 counts of cocaine possession and purchase, involving a total of 1770g
of cocaine.  Wecker did not deny excessive consumption of drugs, on the
contrary, he explained in full detail today how he became addicted, critically
ill, and how he started to live again after his arrest without drugs.  The
Public Prosecution accused him of dragging his co-workers into drug addiction,
even though he knew how dangerous smoking of the refined cocaine is, and
pleaded for a three and a half years sentence.  His lawyers pleaded for two
years on probation, presenting him as a severely addicted man who almost died
from the consumption and saying that this would be enough penalty for a
punished man. The judge did not agree and sentenced him to two years and six
months without probation.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-26-8>
<H1>
Champions' League
</H1>
In their second Champions' League game, the German national champion Borussia
Dortmund won 3-0 in Bukarest last night.  In the beginning, the Rumanians had
some very good scoring opportunities, but Lars Ricken scored the opening goal
in the seventh minute for Dortmund.  The second goal was scored in the 37th
minute after an awkward situation, in which the Rumanian goalie struck the
ball at Joerg Heinrich from where it bounced into the net.  In the second
half, Dortmund had several good scoring chances, but were unable to score
until the substitute Stephane Chapuisat made the third goal for Dortmund in
the 79th minute.  Earlier in the day, Borussia Moenchengladbach also won their
second leg game in the UEFA-Cup at home 3-2 over Arsenal London and reached
the second round of that competition.

