<DOC de-news-1998-04-17-1>
<H1>
Mr Gerhard Schroeder now officially running for Chancellor
</H1>
It's official now: during the special party congress in Leipzig, Mr Gerhard
Schroeder was nominated by the SPD to run for Chancellor, - by an
overwhelming majority of the votes cast. He got 93% of all valid votes,
quite a remarkable, yet not outstanding result. Mr Scharping, who had been
competing for the same job a while ago, had reached 95% at the time. But
maybe that was what Mr Schroeder had expected all the time. He'd always
wanted an honest result. Before the ballot he had spoken to the delegates
for almost two hours, and got standing ovations for almost three minutes
when he had finished - in spite of having been less emotional than expected.

<P>
Anyway, he wrapped it up by a passionate appeal to the party to reach the
big goal, the change of the guard in Germany. "The times are over once again
when it looked like social democracy couldn't and wouldn't work, or that
if things had to work, they couldn't and wouldn't be social-democratic. That
has changed, dear comrades, and we'll demonstrate that to all and sundry when
we win the elections on 27 September. Give us a hand with that, will you?
Thank you for your attention."

<P>
Before Mr Schroeder had come across as less passionate, more like a
politician and an economist, trying to win back votes from the middle classes
his party had lost in the past. He quite clearly ruled out any experiments
with the Greens Party, trying to dampen fears by traditional SPD-voters, for
example as far as raising the price of petrol was concerned. It's obvious
that Mr Schroeder wants to sell his party as the party of renewal, required
to mend what the current government had broken.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-17-2>
<H1>
Federal Criminal Police Agency starts register for genetic data
</H1>
Federal Minister of Justice Mr Schmidt-Jortzig still is adamant that setting
up a federal register of genetic data requires a law. Storing genetic data
would infringe on a person's rights to a much higher degree than just taking
fingerprints. Today his colleague of the CSU party, however, wasted no time
and set up the register at the Federal Criminal Police Agency in Wiesbaden.

<P>
Using 'instructions to set up something', in agency-speak, the agency's
boss, Dr Ulrich Kersten, set up a register to analyse genetic data.
It should be emphasised that this is not a repository to collect and store
data like the ones being used for ordinary fingerprints, it's only meant
for analysis. In spite of that, there have been plenty of discussions among
concerned citizens. Some thought that everybody would become transparent
to Big Brother watching them. Federal Interior Minister Kanther put in his
oar: based on two totally different laws, genetic samples may be collected
and stored. The 16 federal states may only hand over genetic samples of
'concrete' suspects to the agency for processing, and that's set out in
criminal law. Collecting and analysing by the agency, however, is based
on police law. About a year ago both laws had been amended accordingly, and
Mr Kanther was proud of that. "There is no single way to fight crime.
Bugging all houses/flats sheltering criminals will not solve all crimes,
just as much as setting up and using a register of genetic data will never
be more than a tool for certain cases."

