<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-1>
<H1>
Confusion around Schaeuble succession rumors
</H1>
The political ice on which CDU party boss Schaeuble
is skating gets thinner and thinner and talks about his
giving way to a successor are getting louder. Still, these
talks are mainly confined to the media. A newspaper reports
chancellor Schroeder to have confidentially voiced that he
expected Kurt Biedenkopf to eventually take Schaeuble's
place. The North Rhine-Westphalia CDU's top candidate
Juergen Ruettgers has no designs on the chairmanship,
as he again announced today. Hamburg's state CDU chairman
Ole von Boist said there was a leadership crisis within CDU
but has made no headway with his demand on moving up the
party convention.
Meanwhile, Berlin's CDU restated that the dismissed former
department head Terlinden had been helpful in elucidating
the destination of DM 265,000 of faction money, a fact
Terlinden himself vigorously denied this morning.
In essence: Instead of transparency, more contradictions.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-2>
<H1>
23 year old woman down with Lassa fever
</H1>
According to Baden-Wuerttemberg's ministry for social
affairs, 50 persons have by now come forward who were
on the flight to Frankfurt along with the Lassa-stricken student.
Her situation remains highly critical. She is under intensive care
in Wuerzburg's missionary hospital, under artificial respiration
and unconscious. According to her physician, the next few hours
will probably decisive with respect to her survival. At this point,
nobody is venturing a prognosis.
Meanwhile, it has become clear that the patient is suffering from
a hitherto unknown substrain of the Lassa virus, so that there is
no way of being sure of the efficacy of the medication she is
undergoing.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-3>
<H1>
Large scale office searches
</H1>
The prosecutors investigating former Holzmann employees
are having a sharp look at documents held by banks and by
the corporation's auditors as well as by the corporation itself.
These actions will probably carry over into the next two or three
days.
Some 200 police officers and 10 prosecutors searched Holzmann's
Frankfurt main office as well as another 31 locations today, including
the company responsible for auditing Holzmann's books. They are
accused of having okayed the balance sheets in spite of a patent
lack of value corrections. Before the background of the
almost-insolvency
of the mammoth construction company, who announced losses in the
billions last November, the prosecution is investigating former board
members and eleven other individuals under suspicion of embezzlement,
balance sheet forgery and obtaining credits by deceit.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-4>
<H1>
Krenz presents himself to prison
</H1>
Though Egon Krenz, the last state and party chief of the GDR,
sees himself as suffering political persecution, he is clearly
a criminal to the German judges. Sentenced to six years and
six months in prison on manslaughter charges (against persons
who were killed trying to escape to West Germany), he presented
himself for imprisonment today. Along he carries a controversial
point of judicial history: May a chief of state be made responsible
for crimes committed in his country, under whose laws they were
not crimes at all? Germany's federal courts, up to the Karlsruhe
constitutional court, the nation's highest, say yes. The PDS, on the
other hand, considers the proceedings unconstitutional and not
in accord with international law. Suspenseful expectation surrounds
Krenz's appeal to the European Human Rights Court, which has no
bearing, however, on his imprisonment for the time being.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-5>
<H1>
Bavaria's metal workers go along with national union demands
</H1>
A 5.5% increase for all wages and salaries. Bavaria's metal workers
go along with this demand by the national metal workers' union for
the year 2000 labor contract discussions.
Bavaria's union boss Neugebauer said that by this he intended
to build an occupational bridge between the old and the young. By
next Tuesday the state tariff commission will publish their decision
in the matter.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-6>
<H1>
Infanticidal mother may be acquitted
</H1>
A mother who killed her three children may be acquitted. In the Munich
judgment, both the defense and - surprisingly - the prosecution
pleaded
for acquittal on the grounds of temporary insanity. The highly
indebted
woman who suffers from cancer had strangled her 10 year old son and
killed her twin 8 year old daughters with an axe in southern Bavaria's
Pinzenau. The verdict will be known by tomorrow morning.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-13-7>
<H1>
Alcohol consumption receding
</H1>
"I stopped drinking, but am smoking a little more", seems to
be the trend according to Germany's central addiction office.
According to the office, the average German consumed 10.6
liters of alcohol in 1998, 0.2 liters less than the year before,
but the average number of cigarettes smoked increased by 9
to 9,687

