<DOC de-news-1999-10-16-1>
<H1>
Common asylum and legal policies in the EU
</H1>
The heads of state agreed during their meeting in Tampere, Finland that
the European union continue to be push forward the idea of a common
European judiciary. This would ensure that any legal decisions would also
apply in other EU countries and strengthen the cooperation between
countries in fighting organized crime and money laundering. The leaders
want to agree upon the most important minimum rules by the year 2004.
However, many member states do not want to grant rights to a common
European public prosecutor's office.

<P>
Chancellor Schroeder pointed out that the meeting in Tampere dealt with
one of the largest integration projects after the creation of the common
market, the Euro and border control reductions. The leaders also agreed to
discuss creating a common European asylum system. The heads of state
agreed yesterday to negotiate with six countries about their joining the
EU. Schroeder assumes that Turkey will be officially declared a candidate
for membership at the next summit in Helsinki in December.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-16-2>
<H1>
Green party conference
</H1>
The executive spokeswoman for the Green party, Antje Radcke, feels her
party is facing an existential crisis. Radcke said at the party conference
in Magdeburg that she feels the Greens have lost sight of their vision. In
her opinion, Green policy-making has up to now been characterized by
negotiations without an overarching plan. In front of approximately ninety
delegates from the party committee, she called for a new "green message"
from the Green party. The head of the parliamentary group in the
Bundestag, Rezzo Schlauch, said the real problem is that the opposition in
Berlin is being blamed for all of the crises.  Schlauch said party members
should look forward and show solidarity instead of allowing the Union and
PDS to stand for the social conscience of the nation. Other speakers
criticized the disunity of the Greens.

<P>
The party committee intends to discuss program topics as well as debate
about structure reform. The debate is supposed to give the party a
stronger focus, but no decisions will be will made. The Green delegates
adopted a resolution to support the federal government's savings package
with a majority vote. They think it is a good idea to reduce expenses in
the federal budget by 30 billion Marks, but they admit they made errors
when negotiating for the savings package. The delegates also decided to
implement a general safeguard against poverty amongst the elderly, which
is the only thing that would make limiting pension payments acceptable.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-16-3>
<H1>
Higher penalties for tax delays
</H1>
The Federal Minister of Finance confirmed that those persons who don't pay
their taxes punctually will have to pay higher penalties in the future.
The penalty was previously limited to 10,000 German Marks, but could in
the future be as high as 50,000 German Marks. It used to be advantageous
to delay paying high tax bills for as long as possible due to high
interest rates.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-16-4>
<H1>
Bus accident in Turkey
</H1>
A tour bus carrying German tourists collided with a truck in Turkey. Seven
people died in the accident, four Germans and three Turks.  Twenty people
were injured. The accident occurred near the seaside resort of Bodrum on
the Mediterranean coast. The bus collided head-on with the truck when the
driver of the truck attempted to pass another vehicle.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-16-5>
<H1>
Theft of blank forms on a massive scale
</H1>
German criminals have apparently discovered a new field for their
activities. According to the news magazine "Spiegel", massive amounts of
blank government forms are being stolen, especially in Eastern Germany.
Residence permits for foreign aliens and motor vehicle registration forms
are the most popular among thieves. There were 1700 such break-ins in
German civil offices last year according to the Spiegel, three-fourths of
the break-ins taking place in Eastern Germany.

