<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-1>
<H1>
Albright meets with Kinkel
</H1>
Serbian police forces are continuing their offensive in
the southern province of Kosovo. The media in Belgrade reported renewed
fighting last night between security forces and armed Albanians. Eye
witnesses reported heavy fire in the villages west of the provincial
capital Pristina. In Bonn, US Foreign Minister Madeleine Albright met
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel today for talks about the situation
in Kosovo. Mrs. Albright said yesterday in Rome that the USA is no
longer willing to tolerate the policy of Yugoslav State Premier
Milosevic towards the Albanian population of Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-2>
<H1>
Appeals on International Women's Day
</H1>
In statements on International Women's Day, women's
organizations have appealed for equal opportunities, the right of self
determination and more support for families. The President of the
Women's Union, Bundestag (Lower House) Speaker Rita Suessmuth demanded a
better day care system and higher child benefits. The German Minister
for Women, Mrs. Nolte, said that human rights violations most frequently
affect women. Violence against women is a violation of human rights. The
Social Democrats' parliamentary party spokesperson on development, Mrs.
Troescher, pointed out that women perform two thirds of the work hours
worldwide but have only one tenth of the world's wealth at their
disposal.
Pro Asyl, a refugee organization, and the German Council for Women
called for asylum legislation that takes into account persecution
directed specifically at women.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-3>
<H1>
Green Party Convention in Magdeburg
</H1>
The foreign policy of the Executive Board of Alliance 90 /
The Greens was defeated yesterday. By a majority of just one vote, the
party convention rejected a compromise formulation for the election
program that stated that the deployment of the Bundeswehr (armed forces)
in Bosnia has the character of a peace-keeping mission. This statement
would have meant that the deployment in Bosnia was in agreement with the
fundamentals of Green policy which supports peace-keeping missions, but
rejects forcibly creating peace through military intervention. The
Leader of the parliamentary Green party in the Bundestag, Mr. Fischer,
criticized the Greens, saying that they make foreign policy
unnecessarily hard for themselves. Mr. Fischer said that the decision
sends out the wrong signal. He told journalists that this documents that
his party is divided on an important issue of foreign policy. He added,
however, that this has nothing to do with the ability of the Greens to
participate in government. The Greens' financial expert, Mr. Metzger,
said, he expects that this decision will cost the Greens up to two
percent of the vote in the general election.
The party convention yesterday also confirmed the demand to dissolve
NATO, but rejected a unilateral withdrawal of Germany from the alliance.
Today's discussions center around women's policies. The convention has
renewed its demand for the abortion paragraph 218 to be removed from the
penal code. Other subjects on the agenda will be interior security and
questions of democracy. The three day conference will conclude this
afternoon with a speech by the Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr.
Trittin.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-4>
<H1>
Kohl expects unity on citizenship issue
</H1>
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl expects that the coalition will
demonstrate unity in the vote about citizenship at the end of March. In
an interview with "ZDF" TV, Mr. Kohl stressed that unlike the Great
Bugging Attack the question of a reform of the legislation on
citizenship has been agreed upon within the coalition. A situation
similar to the defeat in the vote about the Bugging Attack will not be
repeated.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-5>
<H1>
Thierse: after election victory, reliable subventions for East Germany
</H1>
According to its Vice Chairman, Mr. Thierse, the Social Democratic Party
(SPD) will ensure that there is reliable financial support for the new
states if it wins the election in September. The reconstruction in the
East cannot always be the first target for cutbacks, Mr. Thierse said in
an interview with "Deutschlandfunk" radio. His party is aware that it is
impossible to increase the level of support. The subventions must,
however, be maintained at the present level and be more specifically
targeted. Especially the industrial basis and small to medium companies
should be supported. At the moment, too many ministries are involved.
That creates too much disorganization, Mr. Thierse said.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-6>
<H1>
Clement: SPD program allows for modern economic policy
</H1>
North Rhine-Westphalia's Minister for Economy and Transport
believes that the Social Democrat's program for the general election
allows for a modern economic policy while at the same time aiming for
social justice. Only the area of tax policy still has to be worked on,
Mr. Clement said in an interview with "Sueddeutscher Rundfunk" radio. It
is reasonable to consider a reintroduction of wealth tax if at the same
time deductions in the highest tax brackets are significantly reduced.
The experiences of the red-green coalition in North Rhine-Westphalia
have shown that there have to be concrete coalition agreements with the
Green Party on the issues of transport, energy and foreign policy. This
can be concluded from the disagreement about brown coal mining in
Gartzweiler II where no position was worked out in the coalition
agreement.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-7>
<H1>
Lehmann concerned about general election
</H1>
The President of the German Catholic Conference of Bishops, Mr. Lehmann,
has voiced concern about the upcoming general elections. Speaking on
"Suedwestfunk" radio, the Cardinal of Mainz said he fears that the
discussions will become superficial and parties will be flirting with
voters. He challenged the media to point out the shortcomings of this in
a political race and to confront politicians with the real problems of
the people. Lehmann announced that the Catholic bishops will make a
statement on the election with particular emphasis on the subjects of
unemployment and the protection of unborn children.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-08-8>
<H1>
Formula 1 season gets underway in Melbourne
</H1>
The two McClaren-Mercedes drivers Mika Hakkinen of Finland
and David Coulthard of Great Britain have won the Australian grand prix.
Heinz-Harald Frentzen of Moenchengladbach came in third for Williams
Megachrome. The brothers Michael and Ralf Schumacher both had to retire
in the early laps of the race. Michael's Ferrari had engine problems and
Ralf was invloved in a collision. The defending champion, Jacques
Villeneuve, finished in fifth position.

