<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-1>
<H1>
Schroeder wants to reduce net payments to EU
</H1>
The Euro passed its first real test on the markets with flying colors, said
Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. The future currency is also becoming
more and more accepted by the public, Schroeder said in an executive address
before the Bundestag on European policy. At the same time, the Chancellor made
clear that he will push for a reduction of Germany's net payments to the EU in
the future. He said Germany was neither able nor willing to continue a policy
in Europe that would "purchase" the goodwill of its neighbors with net
payments which become an unbearable burden for its own people.
Opposition leader Wolfgang Schaeuble accused Schroeder of trying to get on
good terms with "Euro-skeptics" (Europaskeptiker) with populist prattle.
Schaeuble also criticized Schroeder for not mentioning agriculture policy at
all, which Schaeuble considers one of the most important and difficult issues
on the agenda for the year 2000. Before Schroeder's executive address,
politicians of all parties honored the 50th anniversary of the United Nations
Human Rights Declaration. In this context, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer
called for the prompt establishment of an international court before which the
people who give the orders could be held accountable.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-2>
<H1>
Government should be judged by its battle against unemployment
</H1>
The new federal government wants to be judged based on its success in the
battle against unemployment. However, the government had not yet set a goal
for the number of people it hopes to remove from the ranks of the unemployed.
Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine has now announced that goal to be 1 million
fewer unemployed by the next scheduled elections in 2002. Lafontaine said if
they did not achieve this goal they would have failed. He also said that there
would be no increase in the value added tax in the coming year. He added, "I
am not dumb enough to rule out tax increases for every year."

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-3>
<H1>
Social laws passed by Kohl's government rescinded
</H1>
The laws passed on social issues by Helmut Kohl's government are considered by
the new government to be anti-social. For this reason, the Bundestag did an
"about face" this afternoon and rescinded the laws. A heated debate lasted for
2 and a half hours. Employment Minister Walter Riester accused the CDU/CSU and
the FDP of unnecessarily jeopardizing social harmony with their policies. New
jobs were not created by their severe cuts in social services. By restoring
pay levels to 100 percent during illnesses and reinstituting employee
protection from unjust firing even in businesses with more than 5 employees,
the SPD/Green coalition wanted to reverse further injustices of the former
government, said Riester. CDU politician and social policy expert Birgit
Schnieber-Jastram countered that the old coalition was on the right path,
which she sees confirmed in the lower unemployment numbers in recent months.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-4>
<H1>
Snow cripples rush-hour traffic
</H1>
Heavy snowfall caused traffic tie-ups in large areas of Bavaria and Hessen.
Outside of Munich, lines of cars stretched up to 25 kilometers. At the Munich
airport this morning, numerous flights were delayed up to an hour and a half
because the planes had to wait for the snow plows to clear away the snow. By
10:00 am, 40 flights had been canceled completely. The series of mishaps over
the last few weeks on the Munich streetcar system also continued. Many
streetcars in Laim were delayed, some considerably, due to signal
malfunctions. The heavy snows caused the airport in Frankfurt to close
entirely. The airline Lufthansa advised all passengers traveling to Frankfurt
or Stuttgart to use the train.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-5>
<H1>
Hostages in Yemen not yet released
</H1>
The four Germans taken hostage are doing well under the circumstances,
according to statements by the Federal Foreign Office. The Foreign Office
declined to provide further details out of concern for the hostages. The three
women and one man were taken on Sunday afternoon about 100 kilometers south of
the capital Sanaa by tribesmen. A deadline set by the Yemeni government for
their release lapsed yesterday afternoon with no result.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-6>
<H1>
Bavaria opens offices in Berlin
</H1>
Bavaria became the first state to open offices in Berlin. Bavarian State
Premier Edmund Stoiber said that in a centralized confederacy it was obvious
that the states would have representation in the city where the seat of the
federal government was located. Bavaria chose an older building in the
government district and had it renovated. Each administrative district in
Bavaria has its own office in the building. But the bickering has already
begun. Upper Franconia is complaining that its office is about as big as the
cloakroom in Upper Bavaria's office.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-7>
<H1>
Bad grades for Bavaria's education policy
</H1>
The Bavarian Social-Democratic Party (SPD) sharply criticized the state
government's education policy. In a forum on current affairs, the SPD's
education expert, Eberhard Irlinger, accused the state government of sleeping
while the schools were in need of reform. The SPD politician called the
Minister of Cultural Affairs, Monika Hohlmeier, an adviser on blocking reform
("Reformstauberaterin"). Hohlmeier rejected the accusations and pointed to the
500 part-time (.66 FTE) teaching positions provided annually, through which
the state proved how much importance it attaches to the children's future.
According to the CSU, Bavaria spends 9,100 DM a year for each child, which is
500 DM over the average of the other states.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-10-8>
<H1>
Meissnitzer extends lead
</H1>
The German women's alpine ski team just missed winning their first world cup
title. In the Super-G run in Val d'Isere, France, Martina Ertl from Lengriess
clinched 2nd place. Only Alexandra Meissnitzer of Austria was faster and was
able to extend her lead in the world cup overall. Regina Haeusel took 5th
place, Hilde Gerg was 8th.

