<DOC de-news-1998-01-31-1>
<H1>
Record unemployment expected
</H1>
The future of the German labor market continues to look gloomy. The German
Federation of Trade Unions has assessed the figures for the month of January
and the results were less than encouraging. The construction industry in
Eastern Germany is particularly affected. The Federal Labor Office foresees
no changes in the situation this year. According to estimates of the German
Federation of Trade Unions, unemployment in Germany has reached a record
level. In January, their findings reveal, 4.8 million people were registered
as unemployed. In December, the number was 4.52 million, almost 300,000 fewer
people. Mr. Jagoda, President of the Federal Labor Office, believes there are
no improvements in sight. At best, the current unemployment level could
stabilize, Mr. Jagoda speculates. The Eastern German construction industry is
in a state of crisis as more jobs are likely to be eliminated. Employers are,
however, more optimistic. Mr. Stihl, President of the German Industry and
Trade Congress, feels that a turn-around in the labor market will occur in
the near future; it is, however, unlikely to happen in the next few months.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-31-2>
<H1>
SPD state party congress in North Rhine-Westphalia
</H1>
The SPD state party congress is right in the middle of the Bundestag election
campaign. In answer to the unsuccessful attempt to choose a candidate for
Federal Chancellor, SPD chief Oskar Lafontaine demanded an end to discussions
about individuals. It is not a question of individuals, he contended, but
rather of political issues. Before the next Bundestag election, the SPD must
concentrate on ways of lowering unemployment. A signal has to come from
Dortmund that the SPD is ready to take on the responsibility of running the
government in Bonn. This is the message Johannes Rau used to swear in the
delegates in the morning. In the afternoon, SPD chairman Oskar Lafontaine
jumped on the band wagon. It is not about a change in government but rather a
change in policies, he maintained. Lafontaine feels that the SPD cannot
attempt to effect a change in government leadership if it does not have any
plans to combat unemployment. Everyone's efforts must be directed at lowering
unemployment. Lafontaine continued that such an effort could be successful in
Germany, as the example of other countries has shown. The cause of the
malaise, he argued, is the misguided economic and financial policies of the
Kohl government. The SPD chairman wants the party to dedicate all of its
energy to the issues of unemployment and economic policies. He also suggested
that he should be the expert at the helm, because he can best get the crisis
under control.  Minister President Rau has been confirmed in his position as
SPD state chairman. Mr. Rau received 92.5 % of the votes. Mr. Rau's deputy,
Mr. Clement, and Ms. Behler were also reelected.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-31-3>
<H1>
90 arrests after conflicts between police and left-wing extremists
</H1>
Approximately 90 left-wing protesters were arrested in Luebeck after
conflicts with police. A police spokesman reported that autonomous left-wing
groups began throwing bottles and stones at police officers in the
afternoon. They also set up street barricades and set them on fire. No one
was injured. The incidents occurred due to a demonstration of around 200
right-wings extremists. The left-wing groups wanted to prevent the rally from
taking place. The police called in approximately 600 officers. The Higher
Administrative Court of Schleswig-Holstein had previously decided in an
expedited hearing to lift a demonstration ban on the right-wing groups placed
by the city of Luebeck.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-31-4>
<H1>
German citizen sentenced to death in Iran
</H1>
Relations between Germany and Iran are once again severely strained. The
conflict is a result of the death sentence handed down to a German man in
Iran, who allegedly had sexual relations with a Muslim woman. The sentence
was declared last Monday but is not yet final. Germany expressed its
indignation at the sentence and warned that the sentence could have severe
repercussions on the relations between the two countries. There has been no
mention of the case involving the German man, whose first name was revealed
as Helmut, in the Iranian press. Rumor has it that he was picked up at the
Teheran airport on September 21, 1997 by an unmarried Iranian woman. The
woman caught the attention of police because she was in violation of Muslim
dress customs by not wearing a veil. During interrogation, she allegedly told
police that she was waiting for her fiance. The German man later denied to
police that he had a sexual relationship with the woman. According to Iranian
law, only married couples may have sexual relations with each other, while
all other sexual relationships are condemned as a sexual offense. If the
woman is a Muslim and the man is a non-Muslim, the man can be given the death
sentence. Like every death sentence, it must first be confirmed by the
Superior Court. The case of Helmut H is the first time German citizens were
in conflict with Iranian law as regards sexual relationships. Up to now,
Germans have been accused of illegal contact with military personnel, acts of
deception and, most of all, espionage. When Germans are arrested or
sentenced, one suspects that Iran expects to make political deals in exchange
for the release of prisoners. At present, there is no evidence to
substantiate these charges in this case.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-31-5>
<H1>
German Federation of Trade Unions has a new management team
</H1>
The German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) in Baden-Wuerttemberg
has a new management team. The team was elected today by delegates at a
regional district conference. Mr. Reiner Bliesener is the new DGB head. He is
46 years old and has worked as a district leader in the wood and synthetic
material trade union. Mr. Bliesener previously worked for the DGB for six
years as a regional youth secretary. In his introductory speech, he called
for a change of power in Bonn and a change in labor promotion policies. He
stressed that record profits and record unemployment do not belong
together. Mr. Bliesener is replacing Siegfried Pommerenke, who has headed the
DGB regional district for over 15 years. He and long-time deputy Matthias
Munz have stepped down because they have reached retirement age. Mr. Munz'
position was taken over by Ms. Ruth Weckenmann, 38, who was the head of the
women and media policy department. Ms. Weckenmann received 93 percent of the
delegates' votes, slightly more than the new DGB leader, Reiner Bliesener.

