<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-1>
<H1>
Holzmann bankruptcy averted
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder has reached a breakthrough in the struggle to rescue
the construction company Holzmann. After a meeting with the Chancellor, the
banks representing Holzmann's creditors said they were ready to accept a
revised restructuring plan for the giant construction firm. Schroeder said
that jobs had been protected to the greatest extent possible, but the banks
have stretched themselves to the limit of what is economically practicable.
Schroeder appealed to Holzmann's competitors to show fairness and not take
advantage of the company's current state of weakness. According to
Schroeder, the federal government will contribute 250 million DM to
Holzmann's reorganization. This includes a capital funds loan of 150 million
DM, and an guarantee of a further 100 million DM. Holzmann AG has announced
that its previous registration of bankruptcy will be withdrawn on Thursday.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-2>
<H1>
Mannesmann considers peaceful settlement with Vodafone possible
</H1>
Mannesmann has adopted a conciliatory tone in its takeover battle with the
British mobile communications firm Vodafone Airtouch. Mannesmann head Esser
feels an agreeable settlement with its British competitor is certainly
possible. He said an acceptable offer from Vodafone would be a condition of
such a settlement. Meanwhile, Vodafone head Gent ruled out merger of equals.
According to Vodafone, their takeover offer should be sent to Mannesmann
stockholders at the end of December. According to Gent, Vodafone is
expecting "overwhelming support" for their offer.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-3>
<H1>
BDI warns against political interference with business
</H1>
The Federation of German Industry (BDI) warned against political
interference in commercial markets. The negative reaction of politicians to
the planned takeover of the German firm Mannesmann by the British
communications giant Vodafone is disturbing, said Executive Director von
Wartenberg. Only the owners should have any say in the decision.
In the case of Holzmann, von Wartenberg said he was concerned that politics
could lead to a situation that would end up being expensive for taxpayers.
It would be tragic if economic judgements wound up being compensated for by
taxpayer money.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-4>
<H1>
Budget debate in Bundestag
</H1>
The leader of the CSU members of parliament in the Bundestag, Glos,
criticized Chancellor Schroeder and his government for having a chaotic
policy. During general debate in the Bundestag, Glos said that since
Schroeder took office, German politics has been characterized by "stasis and
lost ground." CDU vice chair Ruehe criticized the government of failing in
all key policy areas. No clear goal has been discernible, he said. SPD
parliamentary faction leader Struck explained that with the 2000 budget, the
government has produced a program that will recapture the ability for
effective political action.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-5>
<H1>
Kohl wants quick hearing in donations scandal
</H1>
The budget debate in the Bundestag was overshadowed by the political
donations scandal surrounding former CDU Treasurer Kiep. Former Chancellor
Kohl strongly recommended the speedy appointment of a committee of inquiry.
Kohl made it clear that he wants to be heard as a witness before Christmas.
He rejected the discussion of the financial activity of the CDU as
slanderous. Vice chair of the CDU, Ruehe, explained that the party stands
firmly behind Kohl. SPD parliamentary faction leader Struck criticized the
CDU, saying they showed an "unusual brand of ethics" with their handling of
political contributions.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-24-6>
<H1>
Schreiber says CDU donations were not from Thyssen
</H1>
The arms dealer Schreiber rejected reports that the millions of DM in
donations he made to the CDU were actually funds supplied by the Thyssen
company. The donations to the CDU were not connected to individual favors
and Thyssen was not the source of funds, said Schreiber in an interview with
the magazine "Stern". Schreiber gave the donations to then CDU Treasurer
Kiep. Schreiber, under investigation in Germany on counts of tax evasion and
bribery, is currently being held by authorities in Canada.

