<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-1>
<H1>
State elections in Saxony-Anhalt
</H1>
Over 2 million voters went to the polls today [Sunday] to vote
for a new state parliament. Coming eight weeks after the election in
Lower Saxony, this election is also considered to be a test run for the
national elections in September. A "red-green" minority coalition with
Reinhard Hoeppner of the SPD as premier minister is currently in power.
The coalition is "tolerated" by the PDS. The CDU with 34.4 percent of the
vote would have been the strongest faction four years ago, however the
minority opposition forced them into the role of opposition. The SPD
received 34 percent of the vote at that time coming second, with the
Greens receiving five percent. The PDS had practically 20 percent of the
vote.

<P>
The SPD gained slightly in today's election. According to the current
forecast by the ARD television station [Sunday, 22:00], the Social
Democrats will obtain 35.6 percent of the vote. A right-extremist party,
the DVU, has been spectacularly successful in attaining 13.1 percent of
the vote, thus overcoming the five percent hurdle. The Green Party, which
formed part of the previous minority coalition, only attained 3.2 percent
of the vote. The CDU had dramatic losses by attaining only 22.1 percent.
The PDS approximately maintained their position of four years ago with
19.6 percent. The FDP, which only got 4.2 percent, will not be able to
return to the state parliament in Magdeburg.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-2>
<H1>
Reaction to state elections in Saxony-Anhalt
</H1>
All the parties in the election were shocked by the success of the
right-extremist party DVU. Christoph Bergner (CDU) said "For me, the
worst part of this defeat is that we have lost the moderate voters in
Saxony-Anhalt and that the left and right have been strengthened". Mr.
Hoeppner of the SPD said "I think that these results demand that we look
at things anew, and it is not the time this evening to be talking about
coalitions and signals from Bonn, but rather to think about the state of
Saxony-Anhalt and its future". Despite his initial commend, Mr. Hoeppner
did add that "Christoph Bergner and Helmut Kohl were the obvious losers
in this election. Those who try and fool voters and provoke
disappointment with the government shouldn't be surprised that they have
prepared the ground for potential protests such as found in the DVU".

<P>
And the future in Magdeburg? None of the parties want to form a coalition
with the German Peoples' Union (DVU). The Greens and the FDP did not
manage to get into parliament. Gerhard Schroeder (SPD) has advised the
SPD against forming a minority government tolerated by the PDS. Mr.
Schroeder called for a stable state government in Magdeburg, which, he
said, would not be possible with the PDS. Reinhard Hoeppner is planning
to hold talks with the CDU and PDS. The top candidate in the CDU, Mr.
Bergner, was contained after the CDU's defeat and said that he did not
blame Chancellor Helmut Kohl for the bad results in Saxony-Anhalt. "The
current government has done more for Saxony-Anhalt than for any of the
other German states. If we want to analyze the situation here, then we
must also look at the special situation in our State where parties on the
left are only tolerated and a counteractionary right-wing can be formed.
In the light of the current election results, I doubt if this is a course
of action which looks to the future." The Greens did not manage to get
into state parliament. The leader of the Green's parliamentary faction in
Bonn, Joschka Fischer, said that these bad results could be blamed on the
Green's party conference in Magdeburg where the party called for a petrol
price increase to five marks per liter. "This is a bitter defeat for us -
there is no way of getting around that. It is a defeat that cannot be
blamed, in the end, on those in Saxony-Anhalt who fought a brilliant
election campaign. We cannot now limit ourselves to being a party only
for West Germany; that would be the worst thing to do. We are now facing
very difficult circumstances also in the other East German states, and we
must double and triple our efforts there. However, the most important
thing is that we understand and react to the voters in our election
campaign. The message we sent from the Magdeburg party conference has
scared off voters. We have learned this in this election campaign."

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-3>
<H1>
Huber demands a stability pact on state level
</H1>
Mr. Huber, the Minister of Finance for Bavaria, has called for a
stability pact to be applied to the individual German states and
municipalities. Mr. Huber said that the SPD states have till date
resisted such a pact. The states and municipalities have to set up
stability regulations for the planned European monetary union and for
monetary borrowing. Those not adhering to the regulations should be
accountable for their actions. He said that Bavaria was not prepared to
have to pay millions for debts incurred by the other German states. Theo
Waigel, the Federal Minister of Finance, has threatened for several weeks
to present his own draft for a national stability pact should the German
states not be able to reach agreement.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-4>
<H1>
Kinkel threatens stop Western aid to Bosnian Serbs
</H1>
In view of the latest unrest in Bosnia, Klaus Kinkel, the Federal
Foreign Minister, has threatened to stop Western aid to the country.  Mr.
Kinkel said that those who prevent the return of Serbian refugees would
be threatened with having their foreign aid being discontinued. He called
for Croatian leaders to prevent further ethnically motivated
disturbances. Furthermore, Mr. Kinkel criticized Mr. Tudjman, the
Croatian President, who, despite many international demands to do so, has
not presented a plan enabling the return of Serbian refugees.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-5>
<H1>
Zwickel defends trade union campaign for change in power in Bonn
</H1>
Mr. Zickel, the head of IG-Metall (Union for Metal, Engineering
and Electronics) has defended trade union campaigns for a change in power
in Bonn. He said in an interview that IG-Metall only interfered in
politics when they found it necessary, irrespective of whether it is an
election campaign or not. He continued that the unions' campaign was
necessary as they had determined that the current government was
burdening only employees, particularly with their cuts in social welfare
areas. The unions' campaign was to encourage employees to involve
themselves in politics to protect their own interests. The chairman of
IG-Metall still holds to his suggestions that working hours should
generally be shortened in order to combat unemployment in Germany. If
this did not happen there would be no serious possibility for beating
mass unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-6>
<H1>
MAD uses undercover investigators
</H1>
According to the newspaper "Bild am Sonntag", Germany's military
security services (MAD) have even been using ordinary soldiers as
undercover investigators in right-extremist circles. According to the
report, MAD has used soldiers for many years to infiltrate right-wing
groups in order to find out more about their members, their structures
and networks. The newspaper gives the example of a regular soldier who
was instructed by MAD to reconnoiter the particularly militant National
Front. When the danger arose that he would be discovered he was
transferred to a military base in the USA. However, even at that
distance, the soldier is fearful of revenge from right-wing activists.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-7>
<H1>
11-year-old raped in Bamberg
</H1>
An unknown rapist has sexually assaulted an eleven-year-old girl
in Bamberg as the girl was walking home late in the evening. According to
police sources, the man, who is between 20 and 30, had threatened to kill
the girl if she informed the police of the attack. The girl had sat next
to the man in the bus. According to the girl's description, the rapist
had an olive complexion and had dark, wavy shoulder-length hair. He wore
jeans and a blue shirt.

<P>
An immediate search yielded no results. The police are looking for two
witnesses. The first, a man, who had had a conversation with the rapist
on the bus but who did not disembark at the same stop, and an older woman
who got out of the bus at the same busstop as the girl and the rapist.
The Bavarian State Criminal Agency has offered a reward of 2000 marks for
clues leading to the capture of the rapist.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-8>
<H1>
San Marina Grand Prix
</H1>
The Scotsman David Coulthard has won the Grand Prix of San Marino in
Imola with a Mercedes Silver Arrow. This was his first win of the season.
Michael Schumacher in Ferrari came second followed by his British
teammate Eddi Irvine. Schumacher dropped three points behind Coulthard to
20 in the World Championships. Mika Hakkinen, Coltzard's teammate is
still leading the championships with 26 points. The Finn had to withdraw
from the race in Imola due to gearbox problems.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-9>
<H1>
Adler Mannheim are German ice hockey champions
</H1>
Adler Mannheim  won their match with a 4:1 victory against the Ice Bears
of Berlin in the fourth final of the German championship for the 1997/98
season. They successfully defended their title from last season.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-26-10>
<H1>
Soccer: 1. Bundesliga
</H1>
Bayern Muenchen - Leverkusen 2:1

