<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-1>
<H1>
Hombach to be Coordinator of the Stability Pact
</H1>
The European Union does not want to be left out of rebuilding of the Balkans.
At the World Economic Summit in Cologne a few days ago, the heads of state
announced that the EU will provide up to 4 billion DM for this in the coming
years. Now, the so-called Stability Pact for Southeast Europe will also have
a face: at the Chancellor's request, his controversial advisor Bodo Hombach
will go to Brussels. The nomination of the Secretary of the Chancellor's
Office for the international leadership position came without advance notice.
Government spokesperson Uwe-Karsten Heye read a short written announcement
that Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder would give up his best man and most
important colleague for the office of the Coordinator of the Stability Pact
for Southeast Europe. Schroeder later justified the decision in the Bundestag
lobby saying that Germany had always said that they were the initiators of
the Stability Pact and that Germany would also provide personnel to promote
the Pact's objectives, namely the economic development in the Balkans, in
order to secure peace politically. He continued that, after a conversation
with Hombach, he had decided to propose his colleague for the position.
Hombach, he added, was exceptionally qualified for the task. Schroeder will
only appoint a successor to the Secretary of the Chancellor's Office after
the EU has approved the nomination. The candidate considered to have the
greatest chance to succeed Hombach is Walter Steinmeier, Permanent
Under-Secretary in the Chancellor's Office. It is rumored in Bonn that the
working relationship between Hombach and Steinmeier has been strained from
the beginning.
<P>
The reactions to Hombach's now foreseeable departure from the cabinet were
varied. The Christian Democratic Union (CDU) called it a second-class firing,
whereas Hans-Olaf Henkel, president of the Federation of German Industry,
expressed deep regret, saying that business was losing a dependable supporter
as well as the minister with the most economic competence.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-2>
<H1>
Bavaria to Continue to Accept the Counseling Certificates for Abortions
</H1>
The Free State of Bavaria intends to continue to accept the new counseling
certificate [issued by Catholic counseling centers with the remark that it is
not to be used to obtain an abortion] as the basis to allow pregnant women to
obtain non-prosecutable abortions. In a speech before the state parliament
(Landtag), Bavarian Minister of State for Social Services Barbara Stamm
called on the other states to follow Bavaria's lead. Federal Family Minster
Dr. Christine Bergmann announced that discussions with state ministers would
be held next week. In her opinion, women in this difficult situation need to
have their legal status clarified. "They need help and understanding in this
difficult situation. They need help and understanding in making their
decisions, but they also need help and understanding when they cannot decide
in favor of having a child - for whatever reason. And they need the support
of a dependable family policy so that they can decide in favor of having a
child."

<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-3>
<H1>
Dispute over Government's Austerity Package
</H1>
The government and the opposition fought over the government's package of
spending cuts in the Bundestag. Pensions were among the disputed issues.
Federal Labor Minister Walter Riester said the deceleration of pension
benefit increases was necessary in order to secure the future of the system
that is funded by cost splitting. "Pensioners will also make a contribution
to their system - not because the budget is forced to be cut, but for the
future of the system." Riester said the government had identified this
contribution: for two years pensions will rise using the previous rate of
increase. He added that this was the clearly defined contribution the
pensioners would make and that he was convinced that it was reasonable.
The opposition accused the government of breaking its promise to pensioners.
Deputy parliamentary party leader for the CDU/CSU Friedrich Merz warned that
many in the older generation would lose confidence in the social system.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-4>
<H1>
Discussions on EU Automobile Ordinance
</H1>
The German automobile industry has once again criticized portions of the
European Union's planned scrap auto guidelines. Association President Bernd
Gottschalk said that the ordinance requiring manufacturers to take back scrap
autos free of charge should not apply to cars sold before the ordinance went
into effect. "We cannot be responsible for the 160 million cars that are
already on the market," he said. Gottschalk added that the automobile
industry was willing in principle to take cars back. The EU's environment
ministers intend to make a decision on the guidelines today.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-5>
<H1>
Top NATO Officials Visit Kosovo
</H1>
NATO Secretary General Javier Solana and NATO's Supreme Commander in Europe
Wesley Clark arrived in Kosovo for talks. On their arrival in the province's
capital Pristina, Clark said that the increasing evidence of Serb atrocities,
such as mass graves, showed that the NATO air attacks were justified. Clark
also said he was satisfied so far with the deployment in Kosovo of the KFOR
peace-keeping troops. He sees no reason to increase the contingent above the
planned 55,000 troops. Clark and Solana spoke throughout the day with
representatives of the Kosovo-Albanians and the Serbs.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-24-6>
<H1>
Easy Win: Jens Knippschild Makes the Third Round at Wimbledon
</H1>
German tennis player Jens Knippschild has reached the third round in
Wimbledon. He defeated Marc Rosset from Switzerland in straight sets.

