<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-1>
<H1>
Kinkel on the American-Russian summit
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel is characterizing the summit between
US President Clinton and his Russian colleague Yeltsin as a success. He said
that no one had expected Russia to suddenly cease its opposition to the eastward expansion of NATO. In spite of this, mutual understanding increased.
Clinton and Yeltsin did not broach the subject of NATO's eastern expansion
plans.
Yeltsin's spokesman said that the eastward expansion of NATO had been discussed in detail, but that Russian President Yeltsin had not shied away
from his objections one bit. In contrast to that, the two Presidents had
agreed to work closely together on matters of European security policy.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-2>
<H1>
Russia apparently desires membership in the EU
</H1>
Russian President Yeltsin is advocating the membership of Russia
in the EU. The Finnish news agency FNB reports that Yeltsin told them that
Russia wants to be recognized as a full fledged European nation, and that
entails membership in the EU. The Kremlin would not confirm the story. The
Russian news agency ITAR-TASS simply reported that Foreign Minister Primakov
had asked Helsinki to be helpful in the process of obtaining ratification
of a partnership between the EU and Moscow.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-3>
<H1>
Rexrodt: Steel consolidation confronted by irreconcilable differences
</H1>
Federal Economic Minister Rexrodt of the FDP considers the consolidation
of the steel companies Krupp-Hoesch and Thyssen to be confronted by irreconcilable differences. He is desirous of a fusion that preserves the maximum number
of jobs, he said. The executive boards of Krupp-Hoesch and Friedrich Krupp AG
met today in special sessions. The leaders of Krupp and Thyssen will continue
their discussions on the creation of a combined steel concern.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-4>
<H1>
Krupp perseveres with plan for unfriendly takeover
</H1>
The federal government wants to remain on the sidelines with regard to the
takeover battles between steel giants Krupp and Thyssen. Chancellor Kohl
as well as Federal Economic Minister Rexrodt did not want to comment on
details. Kohl simply called on the managers of each company to find
the most reasonable solution. The two companies are presently trying to
conclude a cooperative agreement.
Signs continue to build, however, that Krupp wants to stay with its original
plans for an unfriendly takeover of Thyssen. As reported in the newspaper "Die
Welt", Krupp is planning to make its takeover offer in the week after Easter.
Its offer will have a duration of six weeks. The news magazine "Der Spiegel"
will report in its edition released tomorrow that Krupp had a study made for
200 million marks. The secret paper, entitled "Hammer and Goal" is to have
come from Goldman, Sachs, as well as the Dresdner and Deutscher Banks. The
report concluded that even if Krupp were to incur debts of more than 10
billion marks, the new Krupp conglomerate would be able to retire the majority
of its debts in short order. According to Spiegel, the debts of 19 billion
marks could be reduced to only 7 billion between 1997 and the end of 2000.
In special sessions today the oversight board of the Krupp organization is
to be informed. Karin Benz-Overhage, member of the IG Metall executive board
said she haped as she always had that the talks remained on the topic of a
corporate fusion.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-5>
<H1>
CDU/CSU politicians examine further savings measures
</H1>
Politicians from the CDU/CSU declared their support for further savings
measures for the introduction of the Euro. Finance Minister Waigel, CSU, is
especially for more savings in social aid. Nevertheless tax increases are not
being ruled out. Union faction leader Schaeuble also did not exclude further
saving measures. He said that there was no wiggle room in the requirements
for the introduction of the Euro, even if their requirements might cause
strain in Germany. The required limit of three percent on new debt must
especially be observed. Chancellor Kohl made clear that there could be no talk
of avioding the currency union.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-6>
<H1>
Sentence against Fleuchaus abductor: 30 years in prison
</H1>
San Jose. A Costa Rican court sentenced a 23 year old Nicaraguan to 30 years
in jail for the abduction of the Germans Nicola Fleuchaus and the Swiss
national Susanna Siegfried. Julio Cesar Vega was accused of extortionist
abduction, deprival of freedom, possession of forbidden weapons and grand
theft. Vega was the only member of the five-member kidnapping team arrested
last April. Fleuchaus and Siegfried were taken from a hotel in northern Costa
Rica in January 1996, and held hostage 71 days. They were only released upon
payment of a 300,000 mark ransom.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-7>
<H1>
Guild fears further job reductions
</H1>
The Central Council of the German Unions fears further reductions
in jobs in this sector. Council president Dieter Philipp said in a newspaper
interview that a further loss of 50,000 places this year is not out of the
question. Factories are especially conservative in investment at the present
time. The extent of the dimunition in personnel will depend significantly on
on the continued development of building. Philipp therefore demended a quick
change in the reforms, in order to lend new stimulus to the economy.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-8>
<H1>
Minor state convention of the Bavarian Greens
</H1>
At their minor state convention, the Bavarian Greens wanted to agree
to a resolution on the European economic and currency union. The state organization had formulated a lead proposal on this point. The state leaders Ruth
Paulich and Bernd Schreier spoke on essential issues of state politics in
addition.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-9>
<H1>
Robbery on a gold transport in Frankfurt am Main
</H1>
There was a spectacular robbery yesterday evening in Frankfurt am Main. A gold
transport was forced to stop by several attackers and robbed. No less than
100,000 marks was taken. It happened at 9:19 pm yesterday in front of the
Frankfurt Northwest Center as though in a movie: Shortly after departure from
the trade center, two trains placed across the tracks stopped the transport
of the firm Securitas. The two guards were forced to exit the train with
weapons, 5 to 6 outfitted in blue overalls and armed with machine guns, as
well as apparently either a rocket launcher or a bazooka.
The guards had to get onto the ground while the attackers took several gold
trunks and disappeared. The exact total taken is not yet known. Two minutes
later the deed was done - the criminals fled in a third vehicle, a dark blue
VW bus, away from the city. The guards were shaken, but uninjured. The police
immediately started a large manhunt, but have yet to have any success. The
only conclusions reached so far are that both abandoned vehicles were stolen,
as well as the license plates. This was the third attack on a gold transport
in the last three months, executed in the exact same way. One, a few months
ago in Offenbach, a second at the end of November in Hanau. In both cases the
robbers escaped, and remain at large.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-22-10>
<H1>
Mass accident on the A3
</H1>
Early this morning there was a massive accident on the A3 between Wuerzburg
and Nuremberg. Three people died, and two were injured. The Autobahn was closed
for several hours. About 4:30, perhaps through driver error, but also perhaps
because of black ice, a truck from Bosnia slid into the divider, tumbled for
fifty meters in the center and finally crashed back onto the roadway into a
second car. A 73 year old man from Bosnia was thrown from the truck, and died
in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. His grandson was severely injured,
the driver of the second car slightly. More came later. Over thirty minutes
after the first accident a second car crashed into the back of a truck. The
residents of the area around Ebersburg, ages 24 and 31, were dead on the
scene. The A3 had to be closed in the direction of Frankfurt for over three
hours. Traffic flow was normal only after an eight hour traffic jam.

