<DOC de-news-1997-02-23-1>
<H1>
Discussions on tax reforms
</H1>
The parliamentary leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, Hermann Otto
Solms, said to Deutschlandfunk radio today that he anticipated that the
talks on tax reforms beginning tomorrow between the governing coalition
(CDU, CSU and FDP) and the Social Democrats would yield positive results
within a relatively short period of time. He continued that no-one could
shirk the responsibility of finding ways of improving the unemployment
situation and that the FDP were more than open for far-reaching tax
relief, starting as early as next year. Mr Solms also said that the basic
structure of the governing coalition's original tax reform proposals had
to be preserved, even after compromises with the SPD. This would mean
both lowering income tax on a broad scale while radically reducing tax
concessions. The bottom line would have to amount to tax relief of around
30 billion marks, otherwise the tax reforms would not be accepted. Theo
Waigel, the Federal Minister of Finance, stressed the necessity of taking
painful measures, saying that lower tax rates needed to be
counterbalanced by radically reducing tax concessions. In an interview
with the Sunday newspaper "Frankfurter Allgemeine", Mr Waigel
referred to extra pay for night work and public holiday shifts as a case
in point. At the same time, Mr Waigel reaffirmed that increasing Value
Added Tax by one percent would be sufficient to counterbalance the
reduction of income tax revenue. In an interview with the Bild newspaper,
Rudolf Sharping, the parliamentary leader of the SPD, ruled out
additional taxation of extra pay for night work and shifts on Sundays and
public holidays. In addition, he said that the Social Democrats would
insist on significantly increasing the taxation of higher income groups.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-23-2>
<H1>
DGB appeals to government
</H1>
The Federation of German Trade Unions (DGB) has appealed to the coalition
parties in Bonn to maintain parity in health insurance contributions. The
DGB issued a statement today in Duesseldorf saying that the current
discussions regarding health-care contributions would do away with the
idea of a "social partnership". (The coalition plans that future health
insurance contribution increases should be covered by the employee
portion alone; the employers' portion would remain at a fixed rate.) The
employee wing of the Christian Democratic Party are also against the
coalition's plans in this regard, and have stated that they will only
support proposed tax, pension and health-care reforms if social insurance
contributions were shared between employer and employee.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-23-3>
<H1>
Nolte supports lower pension contributions for parents
</H1>
The Federal Minister for Families, Claudia Nolte, has called for lower
pension contributions for parents. The Sunday edition of the "Frankfurter
Allgemeine" newspaper reports that Ms Nolte says that the planned
reforms should include financial concessions for young families and
mature mothers bringing up children. Ms Nolte suggested a moderate
redistribution from childless contributors to contributors with families,
with a specified abatement in the pension contribution per child.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-23-4>
<H1>
Attack on railway in Brandenburg
</H1>
A railway in Brandenburg has been subject to an attack.
According to the Potsdam Police, unknown perpetrators threw grab hooks up
onto the electrical wiring, causing an oncoming train to damage the
wires. Rail traffic had to be diverted for several hours. Police assume
that anti-nuclear activists were responsible for the attack. Several
Castor transports are planned for the beginning of March to transport
nuclear waste to interim storage at Gorleben in Lower Saxony.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-23-5>
<H1>
Disturbances after rally
</H1>
There have been several incidents in connection with a rally against
ultra-right violence yesterday in Magdeburg. Police have made around 80
preliminary arrests, including several teenagers who face prosecution,
said a police spokesman. Twenty two police officers were injured during
these incidents. The number of demonstrators injured is not known. The
demonstrations were to mark the death of a punker about two weeks ago. A
right-extremist youth who is currently being detained has confessed to
the murder.
There were also several violent incidents in Aschaffenburg after a
peaceful rally. Around 500 rioters threw stones at windows and damaged
motor cars. Police have arrested several persons. The rally, attended by
about 1,500 people, was in protest against an event organised by the
National Democratic Party (a neonazi party) which was later
cancelled.

