<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-1>
<H1>
Continued criticism of tax plans within the SPD
</H1>
The criticism for tax reform continues within the ruling
Social-Democratic Party (SPD) of the government's plans. Reinhard Hoeppner, State
Premier of Saxony-Anhalt, was the first Eastern head of an SPD-led state to
react negatively. In a newspaper interview, Hoeppner warned against
detrimental effects that the ecological tax would have for the "new states" of the
former East Germany. He said they should be granted a special status. Hoeppner
pointed out that the prices for electricity in the East are currently higher than
in the West. Hoeppner has also got reservations about the plans to change the
regulations involving so-called "casual jobs." Gerhard Glogowski, State
Premier of Lower Saxony, demanded revisions for casual jobs and
child benefits. The State Premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, Wolfgang Clement,
has rejected the criticism of his plans again. In order to create more jobs, he has
reiterated his call for tax relief for small and mid-sized businesses.
The SPD's parliamentary party leader, Peter Struck, assured the states that
they will be consulted about the law reforms. Struck said he takes fears of
the revenue decreases seriously.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-2>
<H1>
Unions welcome planned changes for "casual jobs"
</H1>
The trade unions welcomed the reforms planned by the federal
government for "casual jobs" (paying less than DM 620 per month). The
trade unions for the construction, agriculture, and environment industries
(BAU) and the mining, chemical, and energy industries (BCE) spoke of a first
step towards easing the burden on welfare coffers. The head of the mining union,
Hubertus Schmoldt, renewed his criticism of the planned energy tax. However, he
believes that it would endanger jobs. Schmoldt called upon those involved
in the employment alliance saying that the government strives to create a
consensus to be reached. There should be no prerequisites for the talks
between social partners and the government beginning with next month.
The head of the construction union IG-Bau, Klaus Wiesehuegel, deemed the
planned solution for casual jobs in need of improvement, but believes that
fundamentally it is a good one. According to him, it fulfils the primary demand of
his union to include the people who work only few hours and therefore earn little in the
social security system. It was right that employees would decide for themselves whether
or not they wanted to acquire the right for pension benefits by making additional payments.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-3>
<H1>
Scharping: Germany will not take a separate path in NATO
</H1>
Federal Defence Minister Rudolf Scharping has reinforced the fact
that there will be no changes in the fundamental questions of security and foreign
policies under the new government. The Social-Democrat/Green coalition does
not want to go its own way in the alliance, said Scharping in reaction to
American criticism of a proposal made by Federal Foreign Minister Joschka
Fischer. Fischer suggested a more defensive orientation for NATO without the
option of a nuclear first-strike. Yesterday evening, the US Defence Secretary
William Cohen said that the concept of a first-strike was an integral component
of the strategical plans of the US.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-4>
<H1>
Annual report of the Federal Court of Auditors
</H1>
The Federal Court of Auditors deplored the waste of billions of DM in
tax money. In Bonn, the Court's president, Hedda von Wedel, presented the
annual report for 1998 in which the cost increase in defence projects and new
ship building, among others, were blamed. In many cases, the responsible
budget committee in the Bundestag had not been notified. The Court of Auditors
suggested that in  more than 90 areas savings can be done, including administration
and use of real estate. Many expenditures could have been avoided by better planning,
better organisation, and a little common sense.
The Court of Audit cited examples: for the new construction of the Federal
Labour Court in Erfurt, more than 2 million DM was to be spent for installing sun
protection devices in areas that hardly get any sun. The army spent 500 million DM on
forklifts that do not fit through the doors of the majority of halls.
In general, the auditors criticised the fact that in most cases no alternatives had been
considered and the cost and use were not examined before processing a purchase.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-5>
<H1>
"Pallas" damage costs federal and state governments millions
</H1>
According to the magazine "Stern”, the fire on the freighter "Pallas" w
will end up costing the federal government and coastal states a few million DM.
The magazine reported in its latest issue that the Dutch company Weismueller itself
paid 70,000 DM per day to remove the oil from the freighter stranded near Amrum.
More than 500 tons of oil are still on board.
According to the estimation of experts, it will take at least 3 more weeks before
all the oil has been pumped out.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-6>
<H1>
Number of road causalities continues to drop
</H1>
The number of road causalities is continuing to drop. According
to the federal office for statistical issues, in the first nine month of 1998
5,855 people died on German roads. Compared with the year before, the numbers
have dropped by almost 8%. The number of accidents went back by 1.4% and was
around 1.62 million.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-7>
<H1>
Increase of right-extreme criminal offences in East-Brandenburg
</H1>
According to the public prosecutor's office in Frankfurt, the
criminal offences in East-Brandenburg have increased by more than 0.5 times
compared with the year before. It is not only the "Sieg-Heil" shouting and the
wearing of Nazi symbols; what mainly increased is the number of violence
acts against foreigners. In the last two years all the attacks of the
right-winged extremists on foreigners were solved. The administrative
jurisdiction in Brandenburg also registered an increase of drug crimes
especially in schools and nightclubs.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-8>
<H1>
Tourists in South Tyrol can also insist on German
</H1>
According to a decision of the European Court of Justice, the
public authorities in South Tyrol have to talk to German and Austrian tourists
in German, if they demand it. The minority rights for the German-speaking
citizens are valid not only for South Tyroliennes with the Italian citizenship.
The German Court of Justice decided, for example, that the police officers have
to talk in German when inspecting a car with German tourists.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-24-9>
<H1>
Ron Sommer is the "word blender" of the year
</H1>
Telekom head Ron Sommer was elected "word blender" of the year.
This was made public by the "Society for the protection of the German language"
("Verein zur Wahrung der deutschen Sprache"). Sommer has introduced new terms
like "Sun- und Moonshinetarife, City-, Free- und German Calls" into the telephone
business. He has therefore not done a big favour to the German language.
In the eulogy for the Telecom manager they talk about a "spineless adaptation
to the modern pseudo-cosmopolitan try-to-impress-drivel".
The society has got 3,200 members and is therefore the biggest society in
Germany involved in the maintaining linguistic standards.

