<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-1>
<H1>
CDU rejects grand coalition with SPD
</H1>
The federal board of the CDU has unanimously rejected the idea of
a grand coalition following the federal elections in September. At
the same time, the CDU leaders voiced their opposition to a
loaning of party votes to the FDP. Following the CDU board's twoday seclusion meeting, its secretary general, Mr. Hintze, noted
that his party was optimistic that the FDP would again manage to
take the necessary five per cent of the votes. He added that the
FDP can and must reach this goal without help. At the same time,
Mr. Hintze cautioned not to take the comments of CDU parliamentary
group leader Schaeuble to mean a step toward a coalition with the
SPD. Schaeuble had said in an interview that he would not consider
it a national tragedy if the federal elections did not yield a
result that pointed to a grand coalition.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-2>
<H1>
Small party conference of Buendnis 90/The Greens
</H1>
Buendnis 90/The Greens are meeting today and tomorrow for
their small party conference. The sole subject of the conference
is the discussion and possibly change of the current draft of the
election manifesto. During the preparation of the pamphlet, there
had been heated discussions regarding several points of the
program, both among the public and within the party. Especially
the question if peace missions, as the current one to Bosnia, are
legitimate had been a source of controversy between the realist
and fundamentalist wings of the party. The current draft rejects
missions of this sort in principle. The party leadership announced
that this section was likely to remain in the program, since its
critics were going to refrain from further attacks. More
controversial is the question of the mineral oil tax. The plan to
increase the price of gasoline to DM 5 per within the next ten
years is met with criticism by several state groups. Especially
many East German party members consider this demand to mean
political suicide. The additions and changes to be completed
this weekend are all in the form of recommendations for the
upcoming federal party conference in March. At that time, the
final version of the manifesto will be passed.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-3>
<H1>
Calls for joint refugee and asylum policies within EU
</H1>
In the opinion of the federal commissioner for non-citizens,
Ms. Schmalz-Jakobsen of the FDP, the arrival of refugee Kurds in
Italy shows that joint refugee and asylum policies within the European
Union have become necessary. Ms. Schmalz-Jakobsen said that no European
country was able manage the refugee problem on its own. At the same time,
she called for a fairer distribution of refugees within the Union. She
noted that Germany should no longer have to accept roughly half of all
refugees and asylum seekers entering Europe.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-4>
<H1>
Agreement between government and Jewish Claims Conference
</H1>
The federal government and the Jewish Claims Conference
have found an agreement regarding compensations to Jewish victims
of the NS in Eastern Europe. The newspaper "Berliner Tagesspiegel"
reports that from 1999 to 2002, Germany is going to pay 50 million
Marks annually to the Jewish organization. The Jewish Claims
Conference will then distribute the funds among an estimated
18,000 eligible applicants. If the numbers are correct, each
victim could receive about 250 Marks per month. Prerequisites for
eligibility are that the survivors of the holocaust have not
received any other compensations, can demonstrate economic
hardship, and were part of a minority in a concentration camp or
ghetto. After the re-unification, the federal republic had paid
large sums of money to most Central and East European countries,
most of which did never reach the victims. The federal government
continues to refuse to establish regular compensation payments to
individuals.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-5>
<H1>
FDP proposes stricter conditions for social aid
</H1>
The FDP plans to introduce stricter conditions for social
aid. FDP Secretary General Westerwelle said in an interview with
the "Bild Zeitung" that in principle, some sort of reciprocation
needed to be required. For example, welfare recipients will in the
future be required to produce proof that they are attempting to
improve their situation by seeking job training. Mr. Westerwelle
added that only those who are truly unable to work, due to
medical or other reasons, will be exempt. In his words, the weak
need to be protected from the lazy.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-6>
<H1>
Mai for abolishment of civil servant status for teachers
</H1>
The chair of the union for public servants, transportation,
and traffic, Mr. Mai supports the abolishment of the civil servant
status for teachers. In an interview with the newspaper "Die
Welt," Mr. Mai said that he could not see the reason why a teacher
needed to be awarded the status of a civil servant. In his
opinion, only those working in few select areas, such as police,
justice, and finance could be considered true civil servants.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-7>
<H1>
Commissioner for non-citizens criticizes CDU
</H1>
The governmental commissioner for non-citizens, Ms. Schmalz-
Jakobson of the FDP, has criticized the treatment of non-citizens
by the CSU. She told the "Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung" that the CSU
was fishing for votes with slogans that should only be uttered in
pubs. She added that the CSU was causing much damage with this
strategy, while it still wasn't going to help it win the election.
Ms. Schmalz-Jakobson pointed out that the CSU was still supporting
the proposal that family reunions of foreigners was only to be
possible before age six. However, said Ms. Schmalz-Jakobson,
Germany had long turned into an international society.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-10-8>
<H1>
German Women's Ski Team Successful
</H1>
At the world cup giant slalom in Bormio, Italy the German
Women's team has reached a double success. Martina Ertl and Katja
Seizinger came in before Deborah Compagnoni of Italy. Seizinger's
second place helped her solidify her lead in the overall score.
Another German double success was booked at the biathlon
competition in Rupolding. In the world cup sprint over 7.8
kilometers, the nine-time world champion Petra Behle came in
first, followed by her team mate Martina Zellner.

