<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-1>
<H1>
German Railway's plans to cut rail service criticized
</H1>
The state governments have sharply criticized the deep cuts planned by the
German Railway company (Deutsche Bahn AG) to its long-distance lines.
Premier Reinhard Hoeppner (SPD) of Saxony-Anhalt accused the railway of
trying to download the costs to the states. Lower Saxony's Transportation
Minister Fischer said that the company, in reducing its service, was
acting contrary to the demands of the marketplace.
Short-haul lines that will have to be serviced by other means when the
long-distance trains stop running are the responsibility of the states.
The railway company plans to cut almost twenty percent of its
long-distance rail service.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-2>
<H1>
German Railway to cut 20,000 jobs
</H1>
The German Railway company (Deutsche Bahn AG) plans to cut 20,000 jobs
this year, independently of the service cuts it is also planning.
Personnel Manager Foehr said that over 10,000 jobs had already been cut.
The remaining 10,000 would be eliminated by means of early retirement and
by not filling vacated positions. Foehr added that there were no plans for
lay-offs due to restructuring. The railway workers' union (GdED) announced
as early as December that it expected 15,000 positions to be cut in 1998.
Union vice-chairman Hansen said that an additional 1000 jobs were now in
danger, with the new plans to cut long-distance service.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-3>
<H1>
Internal Affairs Minister calls for tougher measures against hooligans
</H1>
Federal Internal Affairs Minister Manfred Kanther has called for tough
measures to be taken against violent trouble-makers at sporting events.
"If you initiate violence, you can expect to meet up with a billy club,"
he said in announcing an 'anti-hooligan campaign'. Kanther also said that
every opportunity must be taken to prevent such individuals from making
trouble. He proposed, among other things, the use of registration
requirements for attendance, and preventive custody for known hooligans.
The SPD and the Greens criticized the suggestions vehemently. The police
union spoke of "typical election-campaign actionism".

<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-4>
<H1>
Election campaigning: Chancellor Kohl attacks opponent Schroeder
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl opened his (re-)election campaign in Lower Saxony
with an attack on the SPD chancellery candidate, Gerhard Schroeder, today
in Cuxhaven. Kohl accused Schroeder, who is also currently the Premier of
Lower Saxony, of being a danger to Germany's internal security; he said it
was impossible that the man who, for years, has allowed the Days of Chaos
to take place in Hanover should become Chancellor.
Kohl also supported the notion that the influx of refugees into the
country must be limited, saying that Germany could not solve the problems
of the world on its little bit of territory.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-5>
<H1>
SPD: If elected, more rights for young 'foreigners'
</H1>
In the event of an SPD victory in the federal election in September, the
Social Democrats are promising an improved legal status for young foreign
residents n the country. The SPD Internal Affairs Critic, Cornelie
Sonntag-Wolgast, said that would include a claim on German citizenship
through birth in the country, and easier naturalization for the second
generation.
She also criticized recent statements by the CSU, saying that they left
out anything positive, as well as the possibilities opened up by
immigration. CSU parliamentary group leader Glos again defended his
party's calls for a lowering of the age up to which children are allowed
to follow their parents to Germany from 16 years to 10.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-15-6>
<H1>
After the Constitutional Court: renewed discussion of spelling reform
</H1>
Following the ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court on the proposed
spelling reform, opponents of the change are challenging its adoption as
the official language. The Bundestag could hinder that, according to FDP
Secretary-General, Guido Westerwelle, while speaking to the 'Rheinische
Post' newspaper.
Schleswig-Holstein's Premier Heide Simonis said the job now was to
convince the public. That state is to hold a referendum on September 27
against the reform. If it is successful, school children there will
continue to learn the old rules.

