<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-1>
<H1>
State occasion for former Bundestag president von Hassel
</H1>
Bonn said goodbye to the late von Hassel, former Bundestag
President, with a state occasion today. The eulogy was given by Bundestag
President Suessmuth and Chancellor Kohl. Von Hassel died last week, at age
84, of heart failure.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-2>
<H1>
Waigel's plans to make up tax shortfall approved
</H1>
The CDU/CSU parliamentary group approved Finance Minister Waigel's
plans to make up for a projected tax shortfall late yesterday evening. The
FDP also approved much of the plan, but rejected tax increases on
principle. The Bundestag today discussed the country's financial situation
in a two-hour special sitting, following the release of the latest tax
projections.
<P>
The projections, released yesterday, are that federal, state, and
municipal governments will take in DM 18 billion less than expected this
year. The Oppositon said the figures show the Government is bankrupt, and
called for Waigel's resignation.
<P>
Due to the state occassion for the deceased former Bundestag President Kai
Uwe von Hassel, no debate was originally planned for today.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-3>
<H1>
Reactions to the tax estimate
</H1>
Federal Finance Minister Waigel does not see any reason for a
political course correction in the latest tax estimates. During the debate
in a speacial sitting of the Bundestag to address Germany's financial
situation, Waigel said the new numbers would not cause a change in the
Government's basic concept. He also said that the SPD shared the blame for
the situation, thanks to its blockading of consolidation efforts by the
Coalition.
It was announced yesterday that federal, state, and municipal governments
are now expected to take in DM 18 billion less in taxes than expected. The
finance minister's plans - to cover part of the deficit through a higher
assessment of monetary reserves and the sale of Telekom shares - have
caused some commotion.
<P>
The Opposition is charging that the Government has plunged Germany into an
unprecedented state of financial chaos and that it now furthermore wants
to breach the country's gold reserves - practically the oath of disclosure
of failed policies. The Coalition counter-charges that Germany would be
better off today if not for the SPD's irresponsible blockade in the
Bundesrat, and it maintains that there is no alternative to cutting
government expenditures and carrying out the reforms which it has planned.
Finance Minister Waigel also defended the plan to assess Germany's gold
reserve at a higher value: "The reassessment will be approached with due
caution. The financial solidity of the Central Bank will be manintained.
Preparedness for monetary risks, as well as the volume of the gold
reserves will remain untouched. Not a single ounce will be sold, and not a
single ounce will flow into the budget. 
<P>
Waigel said that the controversial
move to reassess the Central Bank's gold reserves was not a finance trick,
but rather was absolutely justifiable given the debts inherited from
former East Germany.
<P>
The SPD financial expert, Matheus-Meier, accused Waigel of tax fraud and
irresponsible debt-accumulation, adding that the intention to move on the
Central Bank's gold was the height of insolence: "Imagine that an SPD
finance minister had come up with the idea of touching the gold reserves.
This Government would jump out of the 29th floor in disgust and
revulsion."
<P>
Matheus-Meier also said that Waigel had plunged Germany into an
unprecedented financial chaos: "Someone who shamelessly defends and
glosses over this kind of financial chaos, based on the motto 'eyes shut,
and ever onward' - that person is holding a very bad hand. Not a word
about a supplementary budget, not a word about concrete numbers, not a
word about what they really want to do. This is really making a mockery of
this parliament."
<P>
The SPD also accused the Government of presenting tidied-up figures for
years now, while Waigel went around the country, distributing untenable
promises. They say that Waigel is the minister responsbile for tax lies
and mountains of debt, and that wanting to tap into Central Bank gold and
Telekom shares is the pinnacle of unreliable finance policy.
<P>
The Opposition also claims that it is clear, since yesterday at the
latest, that the Coalition's tax reforms have now failed once and for all,
as there is no money to finance them. The Coaltion counters that the tax
estimate only brings more immediacy to the need for their planned reforms,
because lower tax rates would ultimately result in greater employment and
revenues.
<P>
FDP chairman Wofgang Gerhardt accused the SPD of absenting itself from
reality, while its leader, Oskar Lafontaine was an ideological prisoner to
Social Democrat conceptions. Gerhardt said the Opposition should stop
blocking reforms which would lead to growth and jobs,and also that the
Coalition had long ago agreed to manage the 1997 budget without any tax
increases.
<P>
"The same goes for the Telekom shares. All the small investors who were
counting on you to hold on to your shares are in for quite a shock now,
because it is clear, when you sell them, they will naturally drop in value
immediately. It is the small investor who will have been cheated, misled
by advertising, but especially misled by your promise, which you are
already breaking here after only a few weeks."

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-4>
<H1>
Today in the Bundesrat
</H1>
The budget was the focus of the discussion not only in the
Bundestag, but also in the Bundesrat today. Besides other issues, such
as the health care reform, the tax reform was discussed. 
<P>
As expected,
the SPD majority voted against the tax reform bill. The bill stipulates a
reduction in business taxes, which, in the view of the states, cannot be
counterbalanced by other portions of the budget. The SPD-governed states
expect that there will be an agreement in the mediation committee this
summer, when the major tax reform will be discussed.

<P>
Several other laws were passed by the Bundesrat today, such as
the privatization of Lufthansa airlines. Several billions in revenue are
expected from this step. Furthermore, a regulation concerning the disposal
of old automobiles was passed. According the new rule, the final owner of
a vehicle is required to deliver proof of how the car will be disposed of.
At the same time, the automobile industry will realize its promise to
take back any old vehicles of its make. However, this promise will only be
valid for automobiles that are less than twelve years old at the time of
disposal and only for those that are newly registered after the rule
becomes effective next spring. 
<P>
The SPD majority in the Bundesrat has once
again objected to part of the third phase of the health care reform.
Nevertheless, Minister Seehofer projects that the new co-payment
regulations will become effective on July 1, as planned.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-5>
<H1>
Summit talks of the wage negotiation parties in the building industry
</H1>
Frankfurt am Main. An agreement may soon be reached in the summit talks
of the wage negotiation parties in the building industry. Participants
hinted that a compromise had been found in the controversial question
of sick pay. However, salary increases for workers in East Germany is
still under debate. 
<P>
Following an eleven-hour session, the talks were
suspended in the early morning. The negotiating parties are planning to
get together again today, to work out some final details. Employers and
unions found an agreement during the summit talks, in order to prevent
possible strikes in the building industry.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-6>
<H1>
President Herzog receives European Statesman Award
</H1>
German President Roman Herzog and Czech President Vaclav Havel have been
honoured in the USA as European Statesmen 1997 by the New York Institute
for East-West Studies. He received the prize from US Foreign Minister
Madeleine Albright. In his speech, Herzog advocated a Europe of
reconciliation and tolerance. He praised the reconciliation between Germany
and the Czech Republic as the right way into the future.

<P>
Earlier, Herzog had received humanitarian Joseph Prize from the
Anti-Defamation League. The Jewish organization thus honoured Herzog's work
against racism in Germany and for the understanding between Germans and
Jews.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-7>
<H1>
Juergen Klinsmann changes to Sampdoria Genua
</H1>
The captain of the national soccer team Juergen Klinsmann will change to
Italian first league team Sampdoria Genua starting next soccer season
according to the daily Stuttgarter Zeitung. In an interview Klinsmann
stated he had negotiated a contract with Genua starting June 1. He said:
"It is time that the torture at Bayern Munich has an end." However, he
would make all efforts to win the championship with FC Bayern Munich.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-16-8>
<H1>
Steffi Graf eliminated in Berlin
</H1>
Steffi Graf has been eliminated in the International Tennis Tournament in
Berlin. In the quarter finals she lost against South African Amanda Coetzer
0-6 and 1-6.

