<DOC de-news-1999-12-18-1>
<H1>
Political Contributions
</H1>
The Hamburg businessman Karl Ehlerding has decided to make no further
political contributions for the time being.  He told the newspaper "Bild
am Sonntag" that contributors to parties are worried that they will get
caught in an ambiguous situation.  Until now, the CDU has received roughly
6 million marks from Ehlerding. Ehlerding is the majority stakeholder in
a real estate company that is supposed to buy 31,000 railway workers'
apartments. It has been recently suggested that the company could only have
gotten the contract because of its contributions to the CDU.  Ehlerding
protested against accusations that his millions in contributions already
influenced the sale of 114,000 federally owned railway workers' apartment.
In previous years, the contract was awarded to a consortium of which
Ehlerding was a part by Matthias Wissmann, who was then the transport
minister.  Ehlerding said that the SPD under Chancellor Schroeder was if
anything a stronger advocate on behalf of the consortium.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-18-2>
<H1>
Possible cutbacks in public campaign financing
</H1>
Because it accepted concealed funds, the CDU is now threatened with a 46
million mark cut in public financing.  This could come about if a full
disclosure is not made for 1998 accounts, showing all the names and
amounts, by the 31st of December, according to the "Sueddeutsche Zeitung."
Helmut Kohl, the former chairman of the CDU, has so far resisted
disclosing the names of contributors from whom he annually collected
around 300,000 marks. Hildegard Bamm-Bruecher (FDP) has in the meantime
called for an overall cut in public funding for political campaigns.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-18-3>
<H1>
Party funding scandal
</H1>
The chairman of the committee investigating the CDU party funding scandal,
Volker Neumann, has confirmed that the Leuna files are missing from the
Chancellor's office.  The SPD politician said it could turn out to be a
case of suppression of evidence or burglary.  According to a government
spokesman, documents are being examined in connection with the sale of the
east German Leuna refinery to the French company Elf-Aquitaine.

<P>
The former head of the Chancellor's office, Friedrich Bohl, told
"Suedwestrundfunk" that absolutely no files were removed or destroyed
during his term in office.  If they have disappeared, he continued, it must
have happened after last year's change in government.  Bohl said that the
1992 sale of the Leuna works had nothing to do with party contributions.

<P>
The Thyssen company, which participated in the sale, has already said that
it will turn its files in the matter over to the investigating committee.
Thyssen
will also deliver its files relating to the sale of tanks to Saudi Arabia,
another
contract that is suspected have having been influenced by bribes.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-18-4>
<H1>
Business tax reform
</H1>
The federal government will present its plans for business tax reform
before Christmas.  Finance Minister Hans Eichel announced that he
and Chancellor Schroeder will lay out the main ideas this coming
Tuesday rather than on the 15th of January.  In total, business are
supposed to pay 8 billion marks less in taxes starting in 2001.

