<DOC de-news-1998-07-19-1>
<H1>
Dangerous railway stations
</H1>
According to a fire-protection specialist, many of the larger railway
stations in Germany are not adequately equipped for dealing with fire,
reports the ARD television current affairs program. Stations investigated
include Frankfurt am Main, Stuttgart, Munich, Nuremberg, Hanover, Dortmund
and Hamburg. Experts criticized amongst other things that there are not
enough exits in station buildings, that exit passageways are too long,
that
they are insufficiently signposted and that evacuation plans are
inadequate.
Furthermore, there were insufficient fire hydrants and sprinklers in
practically all the stations. In response to the criticisms, German Rail
has
admitted to some inadequacies. A spokesman said, however, that German Rail
has been working on improving station safety for over a year already.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-19-2>
<H1>
Airbus makes emergency landing
</H1>
An Airbus flying from Istanbul to Dusseldorf had to make an emergency
landing today [Sunday] due to technical problems. None of the 200
passengers
were injured. Ten minutes after take-off, the pilot noticed that the
Airbus
310 had problems with its right engine. Panic broke out among the
passengers
when they were informed of the situation. The pilot ejected most of the
fuel
over the sea and returned to Istanbul to make an emergency landing. The
shocked passengers were then flown to Germany on a replacement aircraft.
The
same Airbus 310 had to make an emergency landing two days ago while on an
internal flight from Istanbul to Ankara as the left engine caught fire
apparently due to a leaking fuel line. The engine was replaced after this
incident, but apparently other weaknesses in the aircraft were not
sufficiently investigated.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-19-3>
<H1>
Berlin Police take action
</H1>
The Berlin CID are investigating Email addresses in Berlin in response to
the discovery of a child pornographic ring in Holland which has been
distributing pornographic material over the Internet. Investigators in
Berlin also intend interrogating a suspect who was arrested in Rome. The
man
has made a statement that children kidnapped in Berlin were taken to a
brothel in Rotterdam. He has also said that one of the kidnapped children
was Manuel Schadtwald, who has been missing for five years.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-19-4>
<H1>
Germany eliminated from the Davis Cup
</H1>
Germany has lost its match against Sweden in the Davis Cup. Jonas
Bjorkman beat Nicolas Kiefer in Spitzeneinzel in five sets. Sweden now has
an unbeatable lead of 3:1.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-19-5>
<H1>
Schily proposes establishment of EU Commission for foreigners' issues
</H1>
Schily, the vice chairman of the SPD parliamentary party in the
Bundestag, has proposed the establishment of a special EU commission to
deal
with issues concerning foreign citizens and refugees. Speaking on
"Deutschlandfunk" radio, Mr. Schily said that these sort of problems need
to
be tackled on a European level. Furthermore, he said that isolating
oneself
was not the right way to handle the situation and that the SPD would give
priority to changing citizenship laws should they win the national
elections
in September. In an interview with the newspaper "Die Welt",  Mr. Bohl, a
minister in the Chancellor's Office, criticized Mr. Schily's statements
and
called him a threat to internal security. Meanwhile, Guenter Rexrodt of
the
FDP, Federal Minister of Economic Affairs, has criticized the CSU's latest
statements in regards to politics regarding non-native Germans. He said
that
the CSU's views did not contribute to Germany being socially open and that
they would discourage foreign investment.

