<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-1>
<H1>
Civil servants are to contribute to their pensions
</H1>
Interior Minister Manfred Kanther has questioned the contribution-free
pension plan for civil servants. In order to stop the annually increasing
contributions by the government he has suggested cuts. Amongst others,
civil servants are to contribute financially to their pension plan, retire
later and receive fewer benefits, as, e.g., the Christmas benefit. With
these measures Kanther wants to ensure that the pensions remain safe
without upsetting the special employment conditions of civil servants. His
top aim therefore is "to make changes within this working system so that
its efficiency is increased and its cost can be carried by the whole
society. This is the task."

<P>
The contributions by civil servants to the pension fund starting in 2001
are expected to raise about DM60 billion. This number is calculated as 0.2
percent of the civil servants' income during a period of 15 years. The
president of the German Civil Servant Federation, Mr. Geier, has rejected
the proposal. The German Federation of Unions (DGB) wants to fight
Kanther's plans from another side. Above all, the DGB wants to prevent that
the early retirement age for civil servants is raised. This could mean that
the unions may also have to tackle the Social-Democrats since SPD
secretary-general Oskar Lafontaine has stated that he is in favor of
limiting early retirement.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-2>
<H1>
First law-suit against cut of sick-leave payments
</H1>
A lawsuit is to remove the legal insecurity caused by the law on sick-leave
payments. A worker of the Mercedes-Benz factory in Rastatt is challenging
the 20% cut of sick-leave payments. Mercedes was the first company to apply
the new law and restricted payments since 1 October. A local law firm
represents the worker. The Karlsruhe Labor Court has confirmed that it has
received a formal writ. Thus, a German Court has to decide for the first
time whether the 20% cut of sick-leave payments as administered by the
Daimler-Benz group and other companies is legal. The judges will have to
determine the exact meaning of the collective agreement for metal workers
for the Baden region.

<P>
According to the metal workers union IG Metall the contract guarantees full
sick-leave payment. But the judges have also to consider the recent
sick-leave payment law. In the end, the question is whether the collective
agreement or the law has precedence over the other. It can be assumed that
the ruling will not be final. The labor courts expect an avalanche of
challenges until the Federal Labor Court in Kassel or the Federal High
Court in Karlsruhe have decided as the last instance, unless unions and
employer reach an agreement earlier.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-3>
<H1>
Biedenkopf appeals to parties in sick pay dispute
</H1>
The state premier of Saxony, Biedenkopf, has asked the parties involved
in the dispute regarding sick pays to show more innovation. Biedenkopf
told the "Leipziger Volkszeitung" (newspaper in Saxony) that the subject
of the current conflict is the reduction of expenditures in sick pays and
not just some general cuts. This could also be achieved by wage or
employment agreements.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-4>
<H1>
OeTV closes the federal convention in Stuttgart
</H1>
The union for public service and transportation is closing its federal
convention in Stuttgart today. The union's finances were one of the main
subjects of this last day. The OeTV intends to stay with its savings
measures, especially to ensure sufficient size of the strike fund. The
convention was still not closed in the early evening. The thorough
organization by the OeTV leadership worked very well for one week, but
right before the end of the 13th labor union convention, the lower ranks
were out for a rebellion. At 4:00 p.m., the executive board suggested to
submit the remaining petitions to the governing board and to close the
convention at 5:00 p.m. but seniors and delegates from East Germany
demanded an extension of the debate. This suggestion was accepted after a
tumultuous vote. The adjustment of the living and working conditions
throughout Germany remains the most important political goal according to
the OeTV chairman, Mai. He said in his final speech that in a time that
is very hard on employees, the union deepened its profile as an opposing
power, despite all differences of opinion. This is important in view of
the portentous alliance between the government and the employers'
associations. The re-elected OeTV leader emphasized that the union will
fight resolutely for the sick pay. Beforehand, the delegates agreed on a
concept by the governing body to reorganize the union funds. This concept
contains savings through the reduction of personnel. Further decisions
made during the convention were the demands for a 35 hour work week
without compensation for wage deficiencies, and for a so called "Youth
offensive 2000," to stop the drastic decline of young members in the
OeTV.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-5>
<H1>
Lafontaine criticizes federal government
</H1>
The leader of the federal SPD, Lafontaine, has accused the federal
government of taking advantage of citizens' concerns about unemployment
and the possibility of eroding living standards. Lafontaine complained
today at the meeting of his party's cultural forum in Berlin that the
coalition's policies were dominated by special interests, were pushed
using fear as a tool, and were detrimental to the majority of the
population. Present concerns, he continued, could only be addressed by
policies based on justice, and by international cooperation. Lafontaine
reiterated his call on employees to gain a stake in the collective
fortunes of German companies.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-6>
<H1>
Bill on reforming criminal law
</H1>
The federal government wants to institute far-reaching reforms in
criminal law. A bill from the Ministry of Justice provides for violent
crimes, such as murder and assault, to be punished more harshly, and other
crimes, such as property and pecuniary offenses, less so. The plan has
already generated heated debate.  SPD legal expert Daeubler-Gmelin
applauds the ministry's plans to base the range of possible sentences on
the constitution, the Grundgesetz, which, as she says, places the
protection of life over that of property.  She warns, however, that it is
not enough to change the sentencing in only one or two areas.
The Green Party has stated that if sentencing patterns are to be changed,
then property offenses should be re-categorized as lesser crimes than they
are presently deemed to be. This suggestion has met serious resistance in
Bavaria. The Bavarian justice minister warns against easing the legal
seriousness of crimes such as robbery or kidnapping: "I do not think much
of the idea of - on the one hand, justly increasing sentences for crimes
that threaten or violate the dignity and autonomy of an individual - while
at the same time being much more lenient on serious property and pecuniary
offenses. When I consider that the minimum sentences for serious cases of
robbery or stealing are to be lowered - that is a step in the wrong
direction." Concerning violent crime, the minister said that his state had
called in the Bundesrat four years ago for harsher sentencing.
According to the Judges' Federation, the reforms being discussed largely
took place long ago in practice; they said that judges made use of the
scope in the prescribed ranges of sentences and thus could punish assault
more harshly than property offenses.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-7>
<H1>
Reemtsma kidnapping trial begins
</H1>
The first trail related to the kidnapping of millionaire Jan Phillip
Reemtsma began in Cologne today. Lutz Drach, the brother of the man
suspected of having organized the kidnapping, is being accused of money
laundry. The prosecution accuses the 35-year-old of having received
27,000 dollars of the Reemtsma ransom from his brother, and of having known
where the money came from. Thomas Drach has not yet been apprehended.
Lutz Drach has been sentenced to two years and one month in jail. The
prosecution had accused Drach of money laundry alone and proposed a
shorter jail sentence. Drach's lawyers are planning to repeal the verdict.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-8>
<H1>
Policewoman shoots and kills fleeing man
</H1>
In Nuremberg today,  a man was shot and killed during a routine police check,
when he tried to escape. The shots that killed him were fired by a female
police officer. As reported later by a press speaker for the Nuremberg
police department, the shooting occurred shortly before three in the
afternoon, at the city moat near the "Handwerkerhof" across from the
Nuremberg main train station. Two officers on duty had stopped two men
for a routine identity check. A background check on the two men showed
that a warrant had been issued for the arrest of one of the men, a
28-year-old Greek national without a permanent place of residence
in Nuremberg. When the officers tried to arrest the man, he attempted
to escape. At this point, the officers used their weapons against him,
and he was wounded and killed. No further details have been released at
this point. Specifically, it is uncertain if the Greek man who was killed had
threatened the officers in any way or if he had been armed, at all. The
20-year-old female officer, whose bullets killed the man, could not
be questioned, yet, because she still has a shock. A press conference
originally scheduled for tonight has been postponed until tomorrow
morning. Rumors that the police patrols are related to a special
operation to fight drugs have not been verified.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-04-9>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
Sunny in the South, as well as in Saxony and Thuringia. In all other
regions increasingly cloudy, and dry. Rain in the North Western regions.
Highs ranging from 12 to 18 degrees Celsius. Lows during the night between
10 and 4 degrees. Light winds from South to South West, strong winds in
open planes and near the coast. Extended forecast: Tomorrow rain in
Bavaria, Thuringia, and Saxony. In the North and West, partially cloudy
but dry. In the North, morning fog on Sunday, then sunshine for the rest
of the day. In the South cloudy with a chance of rain.

