<DOC de-news-1997-12-06-1>
<H1>
Two violent criminals captured thanks to television show
</H1>
A tip from a viewer of the television program
"Aktenzeichen XY" [literally "File Number XY", a public TV show calling on
the public for information to assist the police in deadlocked criminal
investigations - translator's note] helped bring two violent criminals to
justice. The felons had escaped from the Weisenau mental hospital in Upper
Swabia in October. A special police unit descended on an apartment in
Stuttgart and took the fugitives into custody. Both criminals did not
resist arrest. The two men, aged 35 and 39, escaped during a break in
their occupational therapy session.  One of the men raped a women in the
Ludwigsburg district in the spring of 1996. The other was charged with
inflicting grievous bodily harm in a separate incident.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-06-2>
<H1>
Boehringer employees demonstrate
</H1>
2,000 employees of the chemical company Boehringer have
conducted a demonstration out of concern that their jobs are in jeopardy.
Those involved in the protest wanted to make the public aware of the
possible consequences that may accompany a take-over of Boehringer by the
Swiss pharmaceutical company Roche, headquartered near Basel. The workers'
representation fears that 1,400 of the 7,000 Boehringer employees in the
Mannheim area could lose their jobs. Approximately 9,000 people are
employed by the chemical company throughout Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-06-3>
<H1>
Greenpeace protests against toys containing PVC
</H1>
Once again, the environmental organization Greenpeace has begun a
campaign in several cities to protest the sale of toys containing PVC.
Around thirty environmental activists gathered at a branch of a toy chain,
removed toys from the shelves and exhibited a banner with the slogan,
"Keep poison away from children. PVC is no toy." Environmentalists also
protested in other cities including Bad Duerrheim, Heidelberg and
Freiburg, where they carried banners and distributed flyers. The
environmental organization demands that the production of all baby toys
containing PVC be halted. It also insists on a ban on all toys with PVC
that children could put in their mouths; these toys could be toxic if
children chew or suck on them.

