<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-1>
<H1>
Kohl's short visit to Moscow
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl was in Moscow on a brief visit today. He spoke there with
thegovernmental leader Chernomyrdin. In conjunction with the upcoming
heart operation of President Yeltsin Kohl was said to have made a renewed
offer forhim to take a recuperatve holiday in Germany. The Chancellor came
from Japan,the last stop in his Asian tour.The first snow fell today in
Moscow as he met this evening with the RussianChief Minister Victor
Chernomyrdin. The Chancellor came from the heat of Asiaand utilized a
refueling stop of his Bundeswehr plane for a one hour discuss-ion with the
man who will take over the ofiicial functions of  the ill Presi-dent
Yeltsin during the heart operation. Both politicians discussed
politicaland economic matters.
What was more important to Kohl, however, was to give support to his
friend Boris Yeltsin. "We wish Boris Yeltsin the best in these next days
and sincerely hope that he returns quickly to his official dutieshealthy
and refreshed". The phrase "in these next days" fueled speculation that
Yeltsin's operation is in the immediate future. Kohl refused to
either confirm or deny stories that Yeltsin would visit Germany after his
operation to recover. The host Chernomyrdin promised to keep the public
well informed on the date and the results of the operation.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-2>
<H1>
Further billion Mark shortfalls in federal budget in sight
</H1>
Finance minister Waigel's problems continue to grow. According to the most
recent budgetary projections a further billion Mark gap in the federal
budgetis operning. Shortfalls in both federal and state collections are
contri-buting to the gulf. The newspaper "Bild am Sonntag" writes that the
total tax shortfall amounts to three billion DM, two billion from the
federal bud-get and one billion from the states. "Der Spiegel" calculates
the deficit to be as big as nine to eleven billion DM. Both sources cite
the workgroup on tax valuation, which will meet in the coming week. The
federal budget ministry also referred to it in a position paper. Concrete
figures are expected for the first time at this meeting. Waigel himself
revealed on Wednesday in the special Bundestag session that further tax
income shortfallsmust be taken into account. To that point the Finance
minister lacked about seven billion DM for the 97 budget. For that reason
among others a further reduction in the defense budget must occur.
Military experts in Bonn warned against such cuts today, mentioning the
future of the Eurofighter as one of the projects that might be endangered.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-3>
<H1>
Gerhard: Battle with Waigel is over
</H1>
The FDP leader Gerhard considers his disagreement with Finance minister
Waigel over. The two men discussed their differences, and are now
going into the coalition unified on savings, Gerhard told the
"Frantfurter Allgemeine Zeitung". The FDP chief again renewed the call for
the position of his partyon the solidarity surcharge. In 1998 the
surcharge should be reduced by two percent. Waigel siad there was no
reason to renew disagreement on this point.- Further scandal apparent in
poisonous waste disposalPoisonous waste from Germany is likely being
disposed of outside the countryagain. 380 tons of industrial chemicals
from several German states have beenfound in Hungary. Shortly before that,
German hazardous waste was found in Lebanon. The Hungarian government
demanded that Germany take the waste back. According to reports of the
Bonn Environmental ministry it is still unclear which states are
responsible for it.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-4>
<H1>
SPD strategy meeting ended
</H1>
In Berlin today a strategic meeting of the SPD Forum of eastern Germany
ended.A declaration stated that the economic healing process was in
danger. The economic base is still too weak to enable a self-supporting
increase to occur.The Social Democrats further considered how they might
align themselves with eastern German interests. The strategic congress
ended this afternoon in the Willy-Brandt-Haus in Berlin with the
following statement of purpose: To represent the life experience of people
in the eastern states, to strengthen their self-consciousness and
to function as their megaphone. The meeting, originally intended as a more
theoretical search for methods to represent the eastern German economic
misery, turned into a caucus of significant words. A case of this was the
accusation of the chief minister of Sachsen-Anhalt, Reinhard Hoeppner,
against the western states that they make life difficult for the east for
competitive purposes, naming as an example the Agricultural sector. He
said that there exists a clear intention to destroy parallel structures
already developed in the East and which provided a stabile foundation for
the food processing industry. A strong attack, to which Hoeppner added as
he gave examples, comparing the treatment of the east to the tratment of
the handicapped. When they are beyond convalescence and can run again,
Hoeppner continued, the question is asked whether the help can be quickly
reinstated, so that the patient connot run as fast as the helper himself.
The acting SPD leader Wolfgang Thierse also picked up the same note and
spoke of a dramatic competitive situation. Manfred Stolpe also challenged
the agrobusiness lobby to think of the smaller businesses in the west
especially. He stated that competition has its lobby, and that the lobby
of the agricultural establishment, as it exists today in the west has
significant interest in preventing the domination of competitive,
productive if also eastern agribusiness cannot dominate within the
agri-cultural production market of Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-5>
<H1>
Indictments against 70,000 citizens on charges of tax evasion
</H1>
In Germany the authorities announced the indictments of nearly 70,000
citizenson charges of tax evasion. As reported in the newspaper "Welt am
Sonntag" the charges are essentially about the crime of illegal money
transfers to evade tax deductions. No fewer than 40 officials of banks and
savings banks were accused as accessories. Frankfurt chief state attorney
Tillmann has concentrated on the indictments against the local
Commerzbank, as well as the Duesseldorf office of the Dresdner Bank.
Fiscal damages have been set at more than 500 million DM.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-02-6>
<H1>
Neighbors gave clues before the abduction of Fiszmann
</H1>
In the case of the abduction of Fiszmenn neighbors had become suspicious
even before the crime occured. One car stood out for them, which had
parked in front of Fiszmann's house for several consecutive days.
Apparently the family was being observed. It seems that the police did not
follow up on thereports of the neighbors. Researchers at the news magazine
"Der Spiegel" report that accusatory reports existed one month previous to
the abduction of the Frankfurt multimillionaire. The white Fiat Dukato
van, in which Jakob Fiszmann was kidnapped on October 1, was parked for
ten days previous according to eyewitness reports in front of the Fiszmann
family house in Frankfurt. The abductors could have observed the habits of
the businessman. Several neighbors of the family made police reports and
asked for an investigation of the delivery vehicle. These reports were
apparently familiar to the local police force. 
<P>
A spokesman for the
Frankfurt police administration confirmed the representations of the
"Spiegel" in essence. He would not under any circumstances tell the
"Hessischer Rundfunk" whether the peace officers had checked the list
of missing vehicles. The "Hamburger Magazin" asserts that this search had
not been successful. The police announced that more details would be
revealed on Monday. In the meantime it has been announced that the wife of
the chief suspect in the Fiszmann case, Renate Koerpen, is no longer in
the employ of the Fiszmann firm Treuhaus GmbH. Ms. Koerpen was said to
have been discovered in the possesion of an unannounced sum of money.

