<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-1>
<H1>
Penner Calls for Termination of Relations with Iran
</H1>
The SPD representative to the Bundestag and chair of the parliamentary
control commission, Penner, has called for the termination of German
relations with Iran. Penner told the radio station "Hessischer Rundfunk"
that the politics of so-called critical dialogue between Bonn and Teheran
had suffered a severe throw-back. Penner elaborated that if it was to
turn out that the Iranian government was behind the attack on the Berlin
restaurant Mykonos, then diplomatic relations with such a government
could not be continued. During the Berlin Mykonos trial, the former
Iranian leader, Banisadre, had severely incriminated the Iranian prime
minister Rafsandjani (sp?) and the Iranian religious leader Chamenei
(sp?), yesterday. The murder of four opposition politicians is said to
have occurred with their full knowledge and consent.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-2>
<H1>
Beck Proposes Compromise for Savings Package
</H1>
The state premier of Rhineland Palatinate, Beck, has introduced a draft
for a compromise in the deliberations concerning the savings packing of
the federal government. Beck said in an interview with the newspaper
"Leipziger Volkszeitung" that  both savings and tax measures needed to be
addressed on Monday. He believes that an agreement between cabinet and
SPD is possible. If no such agreement was reached, there was danger of
wasting time over minor points and of state and federal governments
playing each other off against one another, said Beck.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-3>
<H1>
Rexrodt Hopes for Compromise between Saxony and European Union
</H1>
Federal Minister of Finance Rexrodt expressed his hope for a compromise
in the disagreement between Saxony and the European Commission regarding the
subsidies paid without EU approval by Saxony to the car manufacturer
"Volkswagen." In an interview with the news magazine "Der Spiegel," the
FDP politician said that if VW did not spend the money but rather put it
away for now, this could be grounds for negotiations. The deciding factor
was whether the company was going to play along with such a measure, said
Rexrodt. He further accused the Saxon state premier Biedenkopf of
imposing massive strain on the relationship with the EU Commission.
Biedenkopf, on the other hand, said that any yielding by the Saxon state
government was out of the question. He explained that 23,000 jobs
depended on the subsidies for the VW plants in the towns of Chemnitz and
Mosel. In an interview with the magazine "Super-Ilu," the State Premier
concluded that the future of the entire region depended on these funds.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-4>
<H1>
New Billion Deficit in Federal Budget for 1997?
</H1>
The federal budget for the coming year might contain an additional
deficit of several billion, as reported by the news magazine "FOCUS," after
analysis of the newest draft of the 1997 budget. The causes cited were
continuously decreasing amounts in tax revenue, reductions in
privatization earnings due to privatization and restructuring in the
East, and rising costs due to continued high levels of unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-5>
<H1>
Illegal Sales of Control Devices to Libya Larger than Expected
</H1>
The smuggling of parts for chemical plants to produce toxic gases, that was
uncovered a week ago might have been occurring to a much larger extent than
previously expected. As reported by the Hamburg news magazine "Der Spiegel,"
several of the control devices were delivered not only to Libya, but also to
Syria. At least 15 such control units are reported to have been exported
to Libya illegally from Moenchengladbach with the help of a Belgian dummy
firms. There is evidence that these deliveries were not exclusively
destined for Libyan plants, but that some of them were transported on to
Syria. An international arrest warrant has been issued for the
German-Lebanese Balanian, the suspected leader of the business, who,
according to "Der Spiegel," has also maintained close relations with
potential buyers in Syria. Papers found in his apartment also point to
former project leaders of the toxic gas plant in Rabda, Libya, which
have organizing for the procuring of the control devices. The buyers have
paid a total of roughly 3.2 million Marks for the technical supplies for
their plants. Balanian appears to have run the business together with two
German companies based in Moenchengladbach. His two German partners have
been arrested, however, they deny to have known the purpose for which the
control units were to be used. "Der Spiegel" further quotes a
confidential report issued by the German secret service to the
Chancellor's office in 1993. The report states that the export was only
possible if the exporting parties provided export papers listing the
correct contents. Thus, any export control seems to run aground quickly
when it comes to skillfully set up ways of circumventing the law and to
the strategic use of seemingly respectable front men and camouflage firms.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-6>
<H1>
Tax Payers' Association Announces Report in September
</H1>
The German Tax Payers' Association has announced the release of a
comprehensive report on the income tax reform. The report will contain
concrete suggestions as to the financing of the reform, said board member
Lau in an interview with the newspaper "Mainzer Allgemeine Zeitung." The
taxpayers' association predicts possible savings in regional subsidies,
low-income housing, subsidies for agriculture and coal mining, as well as
in costs created by the public service staff.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-7>
<H1>
Sager Proposes Elimination of Separation of Office and Mandate
</H1>
The federal board speaker for Buendnis 90/The Greens, Sager, has proposed the
elimination of the separation of office and mandate in her party. In an
interview with the radio station "Deutschlandradio Berlin" this morning, she
said that the party office had to be as attractive as the party mandate.
If this wasn't the case, the result would be a value loss for the party
overall, said Sager. Today, she returns to Hamburg, after a two-year term
in the party leadership. In Hamburg, she plans to run for one of the two
newly created speaker posts during the state member conference of the
Green-Alternative List. She explained that she was working toward a
red-green coalition at the next elections in Hamburg.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-8>
<H1>
HBV Calls for New Strikes
</H1>
The union for trade, bank, and insurance employees (HBV) has called for
further strikes in the retail sector in North Rhine-Westphalia, today. A
speaker for the HBV announced in Duesseldorf that the strikes will
concentrate on the region surrounding Essen. On Tuesday, the German
Federation of Unions had broken off its negotiations for some 500,000
employees during the sixth round. In contrast to the national union of
employees, the HBV insists on additional pay of 55 per cent for work
after 7:30 p.m. The unions reported that today some 1000 employees
participated in the strikes, and thus caused severe interruptions in
sales in the departments stores in question.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-9>
<H1>
Companies Take Indifferent Stance Toward Corruption
</H1>
In the view of Frankfurt corruption expert Wolfgang Schaukensteiner, the
German economical leaders are indifferent to the growing problems of
corruption. Specifically, he called on industrial circles to abandon their
indifference. He explained that the policy of "hear nothing, see nothing"
was very prevalent in the leading layers of the industry, and he called
the managers to finally address the problem. Schaukensteiner added that
the companies themselves took losses because of the practice of
corruption. The expert estimates that roughly 5 million Marks in bribes
are spent in Germany each year. Most affected is the building sector.
Schaukensteiner considers the governmental proposals to counteract
corruption to be insufficient. They are especially missing laws
concerning the siphoning off of profits, as the profits from illegal
businesses are the Achilles' tendon of corrupt businesses. The district
attorney remarked that corruption had to finally stop being lucrative.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-10>
<H1>
DGB Criticizes Distribution of Assets
</H1>
The German Federation of Unions (DGB) has criticized the
distribution of assets in Germany. It pointed out that half of all assets are
owned by only ten per cent of the households, which it said to be completely
distorted. DGB board member Geulich further stressed the uneven
distribution of interest earnings. As little as two per cent of all
interest-earning households received almost one third of all interest and
dividends, explained Geulich. He renewed his opposition to the
governmental plans for elimination of property taxes.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-11>
<H1>
Frankfurt Convention Opens Today
</H1>
This morning, the Frankfurt convention center opened its doors for the
world's largest show of consumer goods. The former fall convention is now
called "Tendencies." Through exhibition of numerous novelties, the
suppliers hope to re-attract consumers. However, the number of German
exhibitors has declined yet further compared to last year's number.
5000 suppliers from almost 90 countries are participating in the convention,
which is organized around three main areas. One of them is "Domus and
Lumina," meaning house and light. It includes gift ideas that focus on
dining and the kitchen. The exhibitions range from trash containers to
cultured pearls, from super flat flash lights to inflatable chairs. They
include Christmas decorations, as well as machines for paining Easter
eggs. One of the most expensive gift ideas is a model of the Frankfurt
convention tower, made of pure rock crystal and steel, selling for 60,000
Marks. Expensive splendor is a major general trend in gift ideas. A new
addition to the Frankfurt convention this year is a Gourmet Shop, which
exhibits foods which are especially suited as gifts. In its report on the
convention, the Munich IFO institute expresses modest optimism. Even if
there is no overall turn for the better so far, there are good reasons to
expect a general improvement in the economy.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-12>
<H1>
Sexual Abuse of Children Also in Germany
</H1>
According to the Frankfurt district attorney Peter Koehler, numerous
children are being sexually abused and sold for pornographic photography in
Germany. In an interview with the news magazine "FOCUS," Koehler said
that on any given weekend, children were being sold by their parents at
highway rest stops. Sexual abuse of children, as recently uncovered in
Belgium, was equally possible in Germany, Koehler added. The
investigators are aware that a large portion of child pornography is
produced in Germany. Police and justice departments lack the personnel to
protect children effectively. Koehler drew attention to the fact that
currently 690 children are reported missing in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-13>
<H1>
Reemtsma Investigator to Join Volkswagen
</H1>
The Hamburg Reemtsma investigator Langendoerfer is going to be the
new safety chair of the Volkswagen company. VW speaker Kocks verified that
Langendoerfer will begin working for the company on October 1. Under
Langendoerfer's leadership, Hamburg police had solved the case of the
Reemtsma kidnapping, several months ago. Langendoerfer had been the
center of attention because he had accused Hamburg Senator of the
Interior Rocklage and police president Semerag, who has since resigned,
of incompetence.
VW reports that is has been spied upon with the help of very modern
technology for months. Kocks announced today that on the test race track
near Wolfsburg a hidden infrared camera had been discovered, which had
taken pictures of the newest VW car models. The camera had been fully
automated to take and send the pictures via satellite to an as of yet
unknown recipient.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-14>
<H1>
Too Many Receive In-Patient Treatment in German Hospitals
</H1>
The newspaper "Welt am Sonntag" reports that German hospitals give in-patient
treatment to significantly more people than necessary. The paper cites a
study conducted by German health insurance companies, which was funded by
the ministry for health.
While a complete version of the report by the health insurance companies
is not expected until the end of the year, experts consider the results from
Schleswig-Holstein, Hesse, and Saxony-Anhalt, which have already been
evaluated, to be representative. These results are now center of the
discussion concerning savings measures in the health sector. The
Schleswig-Holstein health insurance companies estimate that on average
every tenth hospital in-patient could be treated as an out-patient; in
urology the average is close to every fifth patient. Especially on
Sundays there are many unnecessary hospitalizations. The Kiel speaker for
the Association of Employee's Health Insurance Companies (VdAK) concluded
that the emergency care units of the hospitals are not at all well
organized. Another reason for the high number in hospitalizations are general
practitioners, who prefer to refer their patients to hospitals, rather
than to specialists. As a concrete example, the VdAK lists patients
suffering from mild diabetes caused by old age. For this specific medical
problem, the VdAK considers hospital stays of several days to be
unnecessary in most cases. The data from Hesse implies as one of its most
frequent examples the removal of screws and metal plates used in the
reconstruction of broken bones. Also for chemotherapy in the treatment of
cancer, in-patient treatment is usually not necessary, explained the
Frankfurt speaker for the VdAK. If the currently evaluated data is
reflected by the outcome of the studied from the other states, then ten
to twenty per cent of the fourteen million people receiving in-patient
treatment each year, could also be treated as out-patients, which would be
significantly less expensive.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-15>
<H1>
Plans for Seasonal Automobile License Plates
</H1>
Those who use their cars only during a portion of the year, will
soon be able to apply for seasonal license plates. The "Bild-Zeitung"
reports today that the new regulations drafted by Minister of
Transportation Wissmann will allow owners of recreational vehicles,
motorcycles, and other vehicles to specify the interval during which they
would like their new license plate to be valid, starting in March. This
regulation will prevent repeated applications for and cancellations of
registrations.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-24-16>
<H1>
Berti Vogts Receives "Bundesverdienstkreuz"
</H1>
National soccer couch Berti Vogts will receive the
"Bundesverdienstkreuz." The newspaper "Bild Zeitung" reports that with this
award, he will be honored for his athletic achievements, as well as for the
German victory in the 1996 European Soccer Championship. Federal President
Herzog will present the award to Vogts in the presence of the national soccer
team in Berlin in early September. Vogts commented that he had not been
officially informed but that he was very proud to receive the award.

