<DOC de-news-1998-12-04-1>
<H1>
SPD defends red-green tax-reform
</H1>
During the final reading of the tax-reform law in parliament, the SPD
defended the red-green coalition's draft against criticism by the
opposition parties. Financial expert Poss, SPD, said that now the tax-burden
for workers and families, and the middle classes in general, would become
lighter. Financial politics spokesperson Christine Scheel, Greens, even
was for pegging benefits paid for children to their parents' income.
"All parliamentary groups have agreed a long time ago that tax-rates have
to go down, whereas benefits for children and the tax-exemption threshold
have to rise. I would like to ask you to agree to today's draft, without any
ifs and buts, for the sake of the people in this country." Gerda Hasselfeld,
FDP, however warned against negative consequences of the tax-reform. "The
planned finance for these measures will lower companies' propensity to
invest and will cause problems for the labour market. This will cause more
job losses". Opposition parties had already failed to adjourn the debate,
claiming lack of time and the absence of Finance Minister Lafontaine.

<P>
A majority of SPD and Greens votes gave the green light for a so-called
introductory law for the tax-reform. This will raise the benefit paid for
children by 30 marks to 250 marks/month; at the same time, the lowest rate
of income-tax will drop by 2 percent, to 23.9%. The Upper House (Bundesrat)
will have to agree as well, and that's expected to happen within a fortnight.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-04-2>
<H1>
State premiers talk about tax-transfer
</H1>
The 16 state premiers have continued to discuss about new tax-relations
while meeting in Potsdam. The main bone of contention was how the commission
should be made up - that's the one to discuss a new tax-transfer system
between 'rich' and 'poor' states. SPD-governed states tend to favour a
commission consisting of members of federal and state governments, whereas
the CDU/CSU-governed states would prefer Lower and Upper House members
(Bundestag and Bundesrat). At the end of the meeting, the 16 state premiers
passed a resolution regarding European politics. On the one hand they were
for a stronger European Union, and that included prospective new members
from Eastern Europe, while on the other hand they were against any attempts
by the EU-Commission to interfere with national politics

<DOC de-news-1998-12-04-3>
<H1>
Bishops want better family policies
</H1>
The Conference of Catholic Bishops in Germany said that living conditions
of families would have to attract the same attention as the operating
conditions for companies. Society would have to do justice and make up for
the economic burden caused by bringing up children. They emphasised that
de-facto or same-sex relationships should not be treated like partners
living in wedlock and their families

<DOC de-news-1998-12-04-4>
<H1>
Favourable predictions for public health insurance scheme
</H1>
Members of the public health insurance scheme may expect subscriptions
to stay at the same level next year, according to Federal Health Minister
Andrea Fischer. The scheme would probably have a surplus of 2 billion marks
towards the end of 1998. The minister stated that the main reason for this
were massive cost-reductions in the dental treatment area.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-04-5>
<H1>
VfB's coach throws the towel
</H1>
Coach Winfried Schaefer, VfB Stuttgart, threw the towel. That was the
293rd early change of coach since the federal soccer league was started
in 1963. Mr Schaefer quoted sport's and other reasons for his step. And
at the end of the day, tensions within the team had contributed to his
decision. Now the club will begin with a clean slate, Wolfgang Rolff will
stand in - he used to be Mr Schaefer's aide - and he will get supported by
Mr Jochen Ruecker. Mr Gerhard Mayer-Vorfelder deplored the media's attacks
during the last few months, which would also have made it impossible for
Mr Schaefer to keep working for the club.

