<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-1>
<H1>
Holzmann's board optimistic for the future
</H1>
The board of managers of Holzmann AG says it is optimistic. After Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder's successful intervention, the bail-out plan that was
worked out will be implemented quickly. However, in order for the
construction company to get out of the red, the employees will have to make
hefty sacrifices. 3,000 jobs are slated to be cut and the remaining workers
will receive less money for their work. By the end of March, Holzmann must
sell all of its real estate in Germany, including the company headquarters in
Frankfurt. Chief executive officer Binder insists that the sale will be
transacted under customary market conditions, but the buyers have already
been determined - specifically, the banks that are lending Holzmann the
billion DM in bridge loans so that the construction conglomerate can pay off
its debts and cover its operating costs. Holzmann is as healthy as a horse,
Binder said, it just has cash-flow problems. He continued that the only
problems were from the old debts of his criminal predecessors on the board
and in leadership positions. His only mistake, he maintained, was that he
only discovered the big loss-makers, such as the nationally known
Koeln-Arena, two years after he had taken over. The Holzmann chief is
therefore not even thinking about resigning. "We should have discovered it
earlier, there's no question about that; I therefore view myself very
self-critically in this matter, but I think that I will nevertheless continue
to work, because the opportunities that we now have to make progress with
this company are enormous. We have assembled a good team, we have hired many
new people, and together with these new people, I would like to make Philipp
Holzmann one of the leading companies in this field." Binder has replaced
almost half of the leadership team, from the top all the way down to project
managers in order to rid himself of the old personnel. Nevertheless, in the
last week, one of them mistakenly requested a 50 million DM credit from
Commerzbank. The money will now be paid back.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-2>
<H1>
Signs of cooperation for pension reform
</H1>
The salvage operation for the construction conglomerate Holzmann was the
subject of much of the budget debate in the Bundestag today. Other topics
included the budgets for labor, environment and education. With pension
reform, it became clear that the government wants to cooperate with the
opposition. The man responsible for the single largest portion of the federal
budget, Labor Minister Walter Riester, got an earful during the more than
three-hour debate. It was said that the Red-Green coalition of SPD and the
Greens had lost the last bit of its social innocence. It was said that
instead of sensibly rebuilding the social system, they were nonsensically
reshuffling. The opposition cited the eco-tax as an example. Labor Minister
Riester countered that the federal government was successfully lowering
pension plan contributions, and that - unlike under Kohl's government - the
oil tax was not being used to plug up budget holes, but was being returned in
full to the citizens through lower pension contributions. Despite all the
difficulties, Riester welcomed the CDU/CSU's announcement that it will
cooperate in the coalition's planned pension reform. There was agreement
between the government and the CDU/CSU-FDP opposition in the question of
additional private pensions. There were still major differences about the
plans by the SPD and the Greens for basic social security and a demographic
component. The opposition had harsh criticism of the government's decision to
disregard the demographic factor devised by Kohl's government and to adjust
pensions for the next two years based solely on the inflation rate.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-3>
<H1>
Schroeder rejects new debate on tank delivery
</H1>
The possible sale of German tanks to Turkey barely got on the agenda today
when the Chancellor declared that the subject was closed. Former Turkish
Minister President Yilmaz had stated that his country had decided to purchase
Leopard II tanks; remarks which were denied by top government politicians.
Chancellor Schroeder made it clear that he did not want the controversial
subject of tank exports revived at this time. He said he knew of no such
request and that there was no necessity to continue the debate. In October,
the Federal Security Council agreed to the delivery of a Leopard II test tank
over the objections of Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer and Minister of
Economic Development Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul. A government spokesperson
stressed again that the decision on the 1000 tanks Turkey wants to buy would
be made, if at all, at the beginning of 2001. The defense spokesperson for
Alliance90/Greens, Baehr, stressed again that agreeing to deliver a test tank
in no way meant that the delivery of the total amount of tanks would be
approved.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-4>
<H1>
Attorneys for NS victims intend to sue federal government
</H1>
New York. The attorneys of former NS forced laborers want to sue the federal
government if the compensation negotiations fail. An agreement is not
possible before December 8. The German side has offered 8 billion DM; the
attorneys have asked for 10 to 15 billion DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-5>
<H1>
Schily rejects demands of civil servants
</H1>
Interior Minister Otto Schily has rejected civil servants' demands
for a 4 percent increase in salary. At the National Union of Civil Servants'
convention, Schily said that, because of the budget, civil servants' salaries
could also increase only as much as prices do.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-6>
<H1>
SPD wants uniform basic aid for students
</H1>
The SPD wants to implement uniform basic aid for all students. In the
Bundestag budget debate, the education spokesperson for the SPD, Hilsberg,
said that with the basic model, the former education tax allowances and child
benefits would be combined into one uniform amount that would be paid
directly to students.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-7>
<H1>
Abortion pill to be available next week
</H1>
The controversial abortion pill Myphegyne should be available
beginning next week. The regional government of Upper Bavaria had blocked the
original date for market introduction because of technical concerns.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-8>
<H1>
16-year-old confesses to murder
</H1>
In the murder case of the 14-year-old girl named Jaqueline from
Wersdorf near Bautzen, a 16-year-old boy confessed to the act. According to
police statements, he is from the same town as the girl. He was arrested
yesterday evening. The district attorney charged him with manslaughter.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-25-9>
<H1>
Kaiserslautern first round of UEFA cup
</H1>
The soccer club 1. FC Kaiserslautern beat RC Lens 2:1 in the first
round of the UEFA cup. Goals were scored for Kaiserslautern by Sikora on a
self-goal and by Wagner on a free kick.

