<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-1>
<H1>
CSU discussion conference in Wildbad Kreuth begins
</H1>
Theo Waigel, the leader of the CSU, has pledged himself to the
continuation of the present government coalition and has rejected the
idea of a coalition between the CDU/CSU and the SPD. Waigel, speaking
at the start of the traditional discussion conference of the Bundestag
CSU parliamentary party in Wildbad Kreuth, said that it was now clear,
following the FDP's recent meeting, that the liberals are not planning
to change their course; the FDP will have to achieve success at the
polls for itself, however. At the same time, Waigel called for unity
in his own party; he said that the CSU needs to present a united front
on policy. Waigel also called for a fundamental redistribution of
taxation and duty between state and federal governments. He said that
Germany's notion of federalism should be reformed - either the number
of states should be reduced, giving more efficient units, or the
federation and the individual states should be given more autonomy.
Waigel also defended the federal government's decision not to hold any
further discussions with the SPD on the subject of tax reform, saying
that the SPD was not prepared to allow a real reduction in tax rates.
Besides this, Glos, the leader of the parliamentary party, is planning
to present a paper at the conference detailing the party's position on
Europe which will show a more optimistic attitude towards the Euro. On
the conference fringe, the CSU Bundestag deputies have invited Wolf
Biermann, the singer and former DDR civil rights campaigner.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-2>
<H1>
Kanther calls for new measures against Kurdish refugees
</H1>
One day before the start of the Schengen countries' police conference,
Manfred Kanther, the Federal Minister of the Interior, has called for
immediate measures to be taken to stop Kurdish refugees from entering
Germany. Kanther said in Bonn that the problem could not be solved
with an intermediate solution, moving the refugees to Germany. He also
said that everything possible should be done in Rome to secure the
implementation of the Schengen Agreement. The chiefs of police are to
discuss an action plan which foresees, among other things, more
rigorous border controls. The Bundestag parliamentary party of
Buendnis 90/the Greens is planning to apply for a parliamentary debate
on the subject; speaking to journalists in Bonn, the deputies
Schauch(sp?) and Schauer(sp?) called on the Bundestag to apply itself to
the question of a co-ordinated European policy for the protection of
refugees. At the same time, they criticised Kanther, accusing him of
showing unprecedented ignorance when he categorised the refugees as
'illegal immigrants'. The EU commission in Brussels defended the
Schengen Agreement, but also pointed out that it was vital to
harmonise the asylum law of all 15 member countries.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-3>
<H1>
New discussions to avert steel workers' strike in eastern Germany
</H1>
Employers and union representatives are attempting to avert the
imminent strike in the eastern German steel industry. A union
spokesman announced in Berlin that both sides have re-established
contact; the IG Metall union has called a meeting with employers for
tomorrow. The union called the strike, which is due to start on
Monday, to force the employers to apply the west German collective
wage agreement to the east as well; the agreement includes a pay rise
of 2.5%. The employers say that they have made no new offer, their
chief negotiator, Senn, said that they did not want to be blackmailed
by a strike.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-4>
<H1>
Final consultations on new state bugging law
</H1>
Home affairs and legal representatives of the government and the SPD
are meeting in Bonn for the final round of discussions on the new law
on tapping, bugging and surveillance (the 'grosse Lauschangriff'). The
discussions are to focus in particular on the question of how to deal
with conversations in doctors' surgeries, lawyers' chambers and with
others who have a legal right to refuse to testify in criminal trials.
According to a discussion paper written by the Minister for Justice,
Schmidt-Jortzig, even those who possess industrial secrets are not to
be exempt from surveillance, although there will be restrictions on
the use of the results of such surveillance.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-5>
<H1>
EU calls on Algeria to accept foreign help
</H1>
The European Union has called on the Algerian government to take up
the offer of international help to deal with the recent massacres
which have been carried out on the civilian population. In Brussels, a
spokesman said that the EU is hoping that the Algerian government will
not turn down the offer. The German Foreign Ministry announced that an
EU delegation is to go to the Algerian capital, most likely within the
month, in order to discuss further measures against this terror. The
Algerian government has since restated its opposition to accepting any
such foreign interference. Further gruesome attacks were reported this
evening from various parts of the north African state - more than 60
people are reported dead and around 50 wounded.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-6>
<H1>
General Motors to cut more than 17,000 jobs in Europe
</H1>
A spokesman for General Motors (GM) has confirmed plans for job cuts
in Europe. Hughes, the head of foreign operations at the car
manufacturing company, first discussed the issue in an interview with
the Wall Street Journal, saying that GM is planning to cut around
20-30% of the 85,000 jobs in Europe; this would include Opel in
Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-7>
<H1>
Telekom admits problems with bills and faces criticism from Rexrodt
</H1>
Deutsche Telekom has admitted that it is experiencing problems at the
moment working out the bills for long-distance calls for the new phone
companies. A Telekom spokesman announced in Bonn that the new
companies' customers would only be billed for these charges in March,
the companies would be informed of the charges in February. The
spokesman said that the delays were caused by problems encountered in
changing Telekom's computer programs. The problem will affect
customers who make single long-distance calls through a particular
dialling code with the companies 'Arcor' and 'City-Line'. Meanwhile,
Guenther Rexrodt, the Minister of Economics, has severely criticised
the Deutsche Telekom company during his visit to the post and
telecommunications regulation office. He said that this was not the
first time that Telekom has caused confusion with its pricing policy.
As the company is in such a commanding position in the market, all its
charges must be agreed by the regulating office. The chief regulator,
Schaeuerle, announced that he was planning to hold talks with Telekom
and its competitors on Monday on the issue of whether Telekom can levy
a charge when its customers change to another company.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-07-8>
<H1>
Discussions on possible rewards for tax whistle-blowers
</H1>
Representatives of the federal states and national government are
meeting today in Bonn to discuss whether tax offices can in future
offer rewards for information on tax evaders. One key point of the
discussion was that neither the government nor the federal states
wanted to release an 'avalanche of denunciation', so information on
tax evasion from the private sphere should not be rewarded.
Matthaeus-Maier, a politician from the SPD, has called for official
state rewards for whistle-blowers; in an interview with the
'Hannoversche Allgemeine' newspaper, she said that this type of reward
was, in fact, already common practice.

