<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-1>
<H1>
Fischer and Vedrine promise Poland speedy entry into EU
</H1>
French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine and his German counterpart, Joschka
Fischer, have promised Poland that the negotiations for its entry into the
European Union will go quickly. They were speaking at a meeting with
Polish Foreign Minister, Bronislaw Geremek, in Paris, but did not name any
specific date. Fischer said that a swift eastward expansion of the EU was
desirable. Whether Poland will be able to enter the EU in 2002, as it
hopes, depends on a whole series of factors, and it is hard to say right
now what will happen, according to Fischer.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-2>
<H1>
CSU may challenge SPD's citizenship plans in Constitutional Court
</H1>
The CSU is considering challenging the Federal Government's plan to
introduce dual citizenship to Germany in the Federal Constitutional Court
or the European Supreme Court. Out-going CSU leader, Theo Waigel, speaking
just before the start of the closed-door party congress in Wildbad Kreuth,
in Bavaria, said that it was a matter of preventing the Government from
starting down the wrong path in internal affairs policies. CSU
parliamentary leader, Michael Glos, emphasized that the CSU had an
important point to make, and it had to be made clearly. The party's
politicians also rejected criticism that its petition campaign against
dual citizenship would stir up anti-"foreigner" sentiment. Waigel said
even the criticism from the CDU, sister party to the CSU, did not frighten
him.
The secretary-general for the FDP, Guido Westerwelle, distanced his party
from the petition campaign yet again, and offered to discuss national
policy toward foreign residents with the SPD.
Federal Internal Affairs Minister, Otto Schily, said today in Bonn that he
was aiming for the greatest possible majority for the reform of the
citizenship laws. The Coalition's bill is scheduled to be introduced in
the Bundestag next week.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-3>
<H1>
FDP Epiphany meeting in Stuttgart
</H1>
At the FDP's traditional meeting on the day of Epiphany (January 6), in
Stuttgart, the policies of the new Federal Government were called
technically flawed and, in terms of content, just plain wrong. FDP party
leader, Wolfgang Gerhardt, said that the Coalition was simply not equipped
for the reforms required for Germany. He also made clear that, with the
approach of European election campaigns, the FDP wanted Germans to know
that it was an Opposition party with clear policies of its own.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-4>
<H1>
More people dependent on social aid
</H1>
More and more people in Germany depend on social aid for their livelihood.
According to the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden, at the end of
1997 there were 2.9 million people receiving welfare support, which is 7.5
percent more than in 1996. Over one third of recipients were young people.
Single mothers and "foreigners" were especially prevalent on welfare
lists. The VDK charity group (Sozialverband VDK) and the Parity welfare
association (Paritaetische Wohlfartsverband) described the trend as
alarming, since this aid was the last net in the social safety system.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-5>
<H1>
Nuclear compromise within Coalition apparently in sight
</H1>
A compromise is apparently emerging in the dispute over nuclear energy
within the SPD-Green coalition. Spokesmen for the Economic as well as the
Environmental Ministries have confirmed a report in the Sueddeutsche
Zeitung newspaper that a potential solution had been put forward, and was
being examined at a working level. Part of the suggestion includes a legal
ban on the reprocessing of German nuclear waste, as demanded by
Environment Minister Juergen Trittin. A law to that effect would be issued
soon, but only come into effect in a year.
A coalition meeting of SPD and Greens is scheduled for January 13 to
discuss the suggested compromise.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-6>
<H1>
Minister for Families loses legal suit against former East German leader
</H1>
Christine Bergmann, Minister for the Family (SPD), has lost her case in
the Regional Court in Hanover against former East German leader Egon
Krenz. Bergmann is now no longer permitted to say that Krenz wanted to
suppress protests against his regime in East Germany in the autumn of 1989
with the same brutality as the leadership in China used against student
unrest in Beijing. Bergmann is considering appealing the ruling.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-06-7>
<H1>
Former Chancellor Schmidt's 80th birthday
</H1>
Former German Federal Chancellor Helmut Schmidt has been feted by
politicians, associates, and friends on the occasion of his eightieth
birthday. At a gala reception in a theatre in Hamburg, Federal President
Roman Herzog honoured Schmidt as a reliable, straight, and
integrity-filled politician. Current Federal Chancellor, Gerhard
Schroeder, reminded celebrants that many of Schmidt's political
accomplishments had endured, including the global economic summit, and
German-French friendship. In his thank-you speech, Schmidt called on the
peoples of Europe to work together as a community, saying that the
challenges of the 21st century could only be met successfully together.

