<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-1>
<H1>
USA criticizes deportation of Bosnian refugees from Germany
</H1>
The USA has urged Germany to stop forcing Bosnian refugees to return to
their own country.  A spokesman for the State Department, Mr. Burns, said
this is particularly problematic for refugees who belong to an ethnic
minority in their home towns.  Interior Minister Kanther and Foreign
Minister Kinkel have sharply rejected the U.S. government's demand.
Mr. Kinkel said a speedy return of the refugees is necessary in order to
rebuild Bosnia quickly.  The refugees cannot be returned on a silver
platter, as a deportation with comprehensive insurance is impossible.
Germany does not need to be lectured by its American friends, Mr. Kinkel
said.  Previously, Interior Minister Kanther had stressed in Berlin that
Germany had received 60% of all refugees from Bosnia-Hercegovina and
that it does not welcome foreign interference in its internal affairs.
Other countries may consider it appropriate to allow these people to
stay in Germany, because they are well taken care of here, Kanther said.
The Federal Government, however, has always made it clear that the
refugees are only temporary guests.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-2>
<H1>
Government, employers and unions present "Initiative East"
</H1>
The Federal Government, employers and unions presented a proposal today
for a concerted program to increase employment in eastern Germany.
The joint initiative aims to stop job losses in the New States for this
year and to create 100,000 new jobs annually from 1998 on.  In addition,
employers and unions agreed to bring down the labor-related costs in
production output as well as allowing for more flexibility in the
traditional industry-wide collective bargaining agreements for companies
in East Germany.  The trend is towards a more company-oriented wage
agreement which could potentially serve as a model for a corresponding
alliance in West Germany.  The Federal Government promised to continue
tax breaks for East Germany through 2004, and the industry pledged to
enhance its measures for assistance, in particular by purchasing more
products from East Germany, up to twice as many as currently by the end
of next year.

<P>
In Berlin, Chancellor Kohl described the newly-formed alliance as a
signal for the future.  He hinted that an expansion of the program to the
whole of Germany could be possible.  The head of the SPD parliamentary
group, Mr. Scharping, doubted that the labor coalition could turn around the
situation on the job market.  The parliamentary Secretary General of
Alliance 90/The Greens, Mr. Schulz, expects few impulses for the economy.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-3>
<H1>
Reactions from East German Premiers to new Alliance for Employment
</H1>
The Minister President of Saxony-Anhalt, Mr. Hoeppner, is sceptical that the
new Alliance for Employment's will prove successful in East Germany.  As he
told the newspaper "Berliner Zeitung", the government's hopes for 100,000
new jobs as early as next year seem illusory.  He said that the key point
of the proposal, namely more flexible bargaining agreements, is already a
reality in East Germany.  He cannot imagine how this should lead to new
economic incentives, Mr. Hoeppner emphasized.  The Head of Government for
Thuringia, Mr. Vogel, however, called the initiative an urgent
necessity.  Speaking on Deutschlandfunk radio Mr. Vogel (CDU) stressed
this morning that breaking open the rigid industry-wide bargaining
agreements is particularly important.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-4>
<H1>
Lambsdorff fears for German competitiveness
</H1>
The honorary chairman of the FDP, Duke Lambsdorff, fears that Germany is
falling further behind in economic competitiveness.  The reforms now on the
drawing board should have been implemented years ago, he told the
newspaper "Stuttgarter Nachrichten".  As examples he cited making
industry-wide wage agreements more flexible and lowering the pension levels.
Duke Lambsdorff (FDP) conceded that Germany's problems cannot be solved
at the push of a button.  With implicit reference to his party's national
convention due to start in Wiesbaden tomorrow, he underscored the adherence
to the current course of policy.  The FDP would say no to higher taxes and
insist on a reduction of the solidarity surcharge, he said.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-5>
<H1>
The Netherlands caution Germany against revaluation of gold reserves
</H1>
The Dutch Government has warned Germany against revaluing its gold
reserves.  This move had been envisaged by Germany in order to qualify
for the European Monetary Union.  In an interview with the Rotterdam
newspaper "Handelsblatt", the Dutch Finance Minister, Mr. Salm, said that
such a plan would create an upstir.  Bonn would jeopardize the sound launch
of the Monetary Union.  The Netherlands currently hold the presidency of
the EU Council.  The right-of-center politician emphasized that he is
relying on Germany to secure its entry to the Monetary Union through a
reduction in spending and the introduction of higher taxes, rather than
through a one-off profit-making scheme.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-6>
<H1>
IG Metall and employers negotiate old-age part-time employment
</H1>
The IG Metall [metal union] and employers have started consultations today on
a wage agreement for old-age part-time employment.  After talks on a
national level failed, the bargaining parties are now trying to find a
solution for Baden-Wuerttemberg that might be applicable to the rest
of the country.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-7>
<H1>
Ban on slaughtering offspring of imported cattle lifted
</H1>
The ban on the slaughter of offspring from cattle imported from Great
Britain or Switzerland has been lifted.  The calves have been cleared for
consumption in Germany again.  The crisis committee regards the risk as
low, that the offspring of British cattle could be BSE-contaminated or
liable to transmit the disease themselves.  However, organs such as the
heads and spinal cords of these cattle may not be used in commercial
slaughtering or processing.  These body parts must be destroyed for
safety reasons.  This decision was motivated by the fact that Germany is
considered free of BSE.  The Agricultural Ministry in Bonn has stressed
that the five counts of the disease recorded in Germany occurred without
exception in cattle born in Great Britain.  In addition, it can be assumed
that ground-up animal carcasses have not been used in feed in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-8>
<H1>
VW offices and employees' homes searched
</H1>
The bribery affair at the automobile manufacturer VW is drawing wider
circles.  The Public Prosecutor's Office has seized a large quantity of
material during a search of offices and private residences of VW employees.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-9>
<H1>
Police search skinheads' apartments
</H1>
The police have searched 14 apartments belonging to right-wing skinheads
in the district of Cuxhaven.  Steel helmets bearing swastika stickers,
right-wing propaganda material and baseball bats were seized.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-22-10>
<H1>
Soccer: Gelsenkirchen celebrates Schalke's victory in UEFA cup
</H1>
In Gelsenkirchen, more than 30,000 Schalke fans celebrated their team's
UEFA cup victory well into the early hours of the morning.  After the
4:1 result in the penalty shoot-out against Inter Milan, many Schalke
fans converged on the city center.
Shortly before the end of normal playing time, Inter Milan had scored 1:0.
This made the aggregate score for the two matches 1:1.  No goals were
scored during extra time.

