<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-1>
<H1>
Telekom announces lower charges
</H1>
Deutsche Telekom has announced drastic price reductions, in an attempt
to
keep its customers from switching to competing telecommunications
companies in the future when Telekom loses its present monopoly. Telekom
boss, Sommer, said that as of March 1, 1998, calls abroad and
long-distance calls within Germany, especially, will be cheaper. Some of
the reductions are as much as 45 percent. Sommer spoke of a pre-emptive
strike, and quantified the rate break, which he said will primarily
affect
private individuals, at DM 2 billion. Open competition in the telephone
market is set to being on January 1, 1998. The Telekom is also offering
special pricing between Christmas and New Year's. The company's pricing
plan for 1998 includes price reductions for calls abroad, long calls,
and
long-distance calls within the country, as well as discounts for
customers
with ISDN connections. Federal Economic Mister Rexrodt welcomed the new
rates and described them as a result of consistent liberalization
policies, adding that the customer's right to choose among several
providers would increase the quality of services offered.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-2>
<H1>
Postal Minister given send-off
</H1>
ederal Postal Minister Boetsch was given a send-off at a ceremony in
Bonn
today. Chancellor Kohl praised the accomplishments of the CSU member,
saying he had done a great deal of moving and shaking since ascending to
the office in 1993, and had earned the nation's gratitude. Following a
cabinet meeting this evening, Kohl will award the retiring postal
minister
with the Bundesverdienstkreuz (~distinguished service medal). Boetsch
received his dismissal papers from Federal President Herzog this
afternoon.
The postal ministry is to be disbanded at year's end.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-3>
<H1>
Consensus not to top up International Monetary Fund
</H1>
Germany and the United States decline to top up the IMF with capital
because of the Southeast Asian financial crisis. Talks between Federal
Finance Minster Waigel and his American counterpart, Rubin, as well as
President Clinton, made that clear. Following the meeting the White
House,
Waigel said it had been agreed upon that the world's financial
institutions should not carry the risk alone, but rather investors
should
also have a bigger stake.
<p>
The politicians welcomed the new Japanese consolidation programme, and
the
assurances from all the presidential candidates in South Korea that they
would realize the reforms recommended by the IMF.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-4>
<H1>
Huchstein calls for limiting of ARD and ZDF's "expansion drive"
</H1>
The chairman of the State Broadcasters Directors' Committee, Huchstein,
has issued a statement against the demand by private broadcasters that
the
public television stations ARD and ZDF have their programming reduced.
In
the statement, which was released today in Ludwigshafen, he said that
the
demand ignored the role of public programming as a guarantor of variety,
and ideas and viewpoints outside the mainstream.
<p>
In the same document, Huchstein also spoke of the need to limit the, in
his eyes, increasing drive toward expansion at ARD and ZDF. As an
example,
he named the children's channel, which had said led, after only a few
days, to the cancellation of ZDF's normal weekday children's
programming.
Huchstein said that politics must be the means to correct such
conceptual
errors. 

<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-5>
<H1>
Natalie Astner's killer gets life
</H1>
The killer of 7-year-old Natalie Astner has been sentenced to life
imprisonment. The Regional Court found the 29-year-old accused, Armin
Schreiner, guilty and denied him the usual possibility of parole after
15
years of time served. The court thus accepted the sentence suggested by
the Public Prosecutor's Office. Schreiner, who has a prior conviction on
similar charges, admitted on the first day of the trial that he had
abducted the girl near her home in September 1996, sexually abused her,
and thrown her in the Lech River, where she drowned.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-17-6>
<H1>
Ruehe calls for clearer political instruction for soldiers
</H1>
Federal defence Minister Ruehe has reiterated that right-wing activities
in the German Armed Forces must be fought with all available means.
Speaking today at a visit to the Gebirgsjaeger Battalion in Schneeberg,
Saxony, the CDU member said that an insufficient political education for
soldiers was partly to blame for such occurrences. Therefore, he
continued, their theoretical training must be modified so as to be
clearer. This military base in the Erz mountains has been in the
headlines
because of two videos of right-wing incidents. Ruehe emphasized again
that
such incidents were not characteristic of the German Armed Forces.

