<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-1>
<H1>
Government expects greater debts in future
</H1>
The red-green coalition of the federal government expects the national
budget to be in worse shape in the future. "Der Spiegel" cites an
internal government report which predicts a rise in the national debt to
61.6 billion marks by next year. This amount would be approximately five
billion marks greater than that which former finance minister Waigel
had predicted. The report shows even greater problems to be revealed upon
checks on ready cash after the year 2000. At that point, the federal
government would owe 13.5 billion marks more than it had anticipated.
Mr. Metzger, the Greens' budget expert, wrote a piece for  "Der Spiegel" in
which he asks the new federal government to reduce debt as close to
zero as possible and to make painful budget cuts for the sake of future
generations.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-2>
<H1>
Tax break for middle-sized businesses
</H1>
Federal Economics Minister Mueller insists that middle-sized businesses
which have a high energy usage should be excluded from paying the
planned environmental tax. Until now, only large businesses were excluded.
In an interview, Mr. Mueller said that nothing good would come out of
putting only large businesses at a disadvantage. He also warned about the
the resulting loss of jobs and recommended that the government not implement
the energy tax until there is there is uniform legislation for all of
Europe.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-3>
<H1>
Binding agreements to create apprenticeships
</H1>
Buhlmann, federal minister of education, would like to have binding
agreements with industry for the creation of apprenticeships. If an
alliance to create more vocational training opportunities fails, the
apprenticeship system must be restructured by legislation, Ms. Buhlmann
said in an interview.

<P>
Minister of Labor Riester has expressed concern primarily for
unemployed youth. A program stipulated by the coalition contract will go into
effect by the middle of next year to create 100,000 apprenticeships. Special
funds from the Federal Institute of Labor and other public moneys should be
used to finance the program, Mr. Riester added.

<P>
In addition, Riester plans to send older workers into retirement at an
earlier age. This measure should provide more jobs for younger workers,
Mr. Riester stressed at a trade union meeting. He continued that, while he
could foresee early pension payments being reduced, the amount of the
reduction would be less than under the previous pension system.
Adjustment payments would take care of any differences, he concluded.

<P>
Hundt, president of the employer's association, was critical of Mr.
Riester's plans. These measures would spell higher costs for companies,
he added.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-4>
<H1>
Decision on red-red coalition
</H1>
The party congresses of the SPD and PDS took place today in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. The delegates at both party conferences voted
in favor of the coalition contract, which party heads had discussed for
two weeks. The Social Democrats reached the required simple majority while
the PDS received much more than the two-third majority it required. The
results were more clear-cut than previously expected. The PDS party
congress in Parching had more affirmative votes than at the SPD party
congress in Guestrow. This is the first red-red alliance in the history
of the Federal Republic of Germany. At their party congress, 63 Social
democrats voted "yes" on the coalition, while 22 did not welcome a
partnership with the PDS. Mr. Ringstorff, minister president designate
and state SPD party chief, campaigned again for the red-red coalition and
appealed to his critics not to leave the party. The leftist SPD voted
overwhelmingly for the coalition. Only six delegates voting against the
alliance while 100 voted for it.

<P>
The party's approval of the coalition was an obvious success for Helmut
Hotler, PDS party chief, who had some trepidations about getting a
two-third majority in the days leading up to the party congress. If
Harald Ringsstorff is indeed elected the head of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
next Tuesday, he will have three PDS ministers in his cabinet--a first in
the Federal Republic of Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-5>
<H1>
Successor for Tietmeyer
</H1>
The SPD has apparently already decided on a successor for Bundesbank
President Tietmeyer. According to "Der Spiegel", Finance Minister Lafontaine
would like to propose Mr. Welteke, president of the Hesse Central Bank. His
views are reportedly closer to those of the Social Democrats than
Tietmeyer's. Mr. Tietmeyer recently said that the constant appeals to
the Bundesbank could actually cause delays in implementing monetary
measures. However, the SPD is continuing its policy. First, Finance Minister
Lafontaine and then Federal Chancellor Schroeder have put pressure on the
Bundesbank. At a trade union meeting of IG Mining, Chemistry and Energy in
Duisberg, Mr. Schroeder called to the Bundesbank not to establish policy solely
on the basis of monetary stability.

<P>
According to Mr. Schroeder, the Bundesbank is also responsible for
bringing about economic growth and creating more employment. At the same time,
Mr. Schroeder announced that the government and Finance Minister Lafontaine
respect the independence of the Bundesbank.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-6>
<H1>
Schaeuble for state-level black-green coalition
</H1>
Wolfgang Schaeuble, the future federal chairman of the CDU can imagine
a coalition on the state-level between his party and the Greens. In an
interview, Mr. Schaeuble praised Peter Mueller, Saarland CDU chairman,
for the latter's plans to enter into a coalition with the Greens next fall
during state elections. However, the much-wooed Greens reacted
defensively to Wolfgang Schaeuble's comments. Mr. Beck, the Greens spokesman,
noted in Bonn that Schaeuble's black-green coalition strategy was nothing more
than simple arithmetic. For the Greens, a black-green alliance is not a
matter for discussion at this time. Should the CDU wish to prove that it is
willing to emerge from its political isolation on the right of the party
spectrum, it would have to prove itself in terms of its programs, Mr. Beck
continued.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-31-7>
<H1>
Floodwaters remain dangerously high
</H1>
Meteorologists have predicted heavy rainfall in the floodwater areas
along the Rhine and Moselle. Precipitation of 40 liters per square meter are
expected. Because the ground cannot absorb any more water, the rain
quickly adds to the floodwater. The water level of the Rhine rises hourly. The
Moselle is expected to rise to nine meters by tomorrow. In Koblenz,
preparations are being made for a huge flood. Authorities are prepared for
possible evacuations. The Bundeswehr is on alert.

