<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-1>
<H1>
Special Bundestag session on possible surplus
</H1>
One day before the federal tax revenue estimation committee (Arbeitskreis
Steuerschaetzung) convenes again, the partisan wrangling over what to do
with a possible surplus (that is, higher tax revenues than previously
projected) continues. The Parliamentary Secretary for the Finance
Department, Barbara Hendricks, told the Bundestag in Berlin that the
Opposition's calls for tax cuts were frivolous and populistic. She added
that the Government would stick to its guns on planned austerity measures.
The finance speaker for the Greens, Klaus Mueller, suggested that German
residents were already less burdened by taxes than under the previous
government of Helmut Kohl.
The FDP, who had instigated the special session, accused the government of
gouging the populace.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-2>
<H1>
Berlin SPD special congress: Grand Coalition or no?
</H1>
At a special party congress of the Berlin state SPD, leader Peter Strieder
has called upon delegates to vote in favour of coalition talks with the CDU.
He said that the SPD had accomplished a great deal over the last four years
in the Grand Coalition.
The left wing of the party and almost half of the regional party
associations within the state of Berlin form a majority speaking in favour
of a renewal of the party on the Opposition benches.
The approximately 320 delegates are to reach a decision on the coalition
issue this evening.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-3>
<H1>
Federal Government still supports Wehrmacht exhibition
</H1>
The Federal Government sees no reason to distance itself from the substance
of the exhibition on the Wehrmacht (German army during the Nazi era). Some
recently discovered factual errors, do nothing to diminish the basic content
of the exhibition, as Deputy Minister for the Foreign Affairs Office, Ludger
Volmer, emphasized during a Bundestag question period in Berlin. He said
that given the wealth of photographic material, the number of incorrectly
ascribed photos was small.
The CSU insisted that the Wehrmacht exhibition not be shown in the United
States, despite plans to the contrary.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-4>
<H1>
Two BILD journalists resign due to Stasi links
</H1>
The Associate Editor of BILD newspaper, Klaus-Dieter Kimmel, and his
colleague in the sports department, Manfred Hoehnel, are leaving the paper.
According to information from the Springer Publishing House, which produces
the newspaper, both men resigned, effective immediately. Deutschlandfunk
radio reported this afternoon that the two journalists worked for the East
German state-security service, the Stasi, before that regime ended. Springer
Publishers responded that Kimmel had sworn that he never delivered
information about individuals. Nevertheless, the company added, it was
desirable to avoid any potential incriminations.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-5>
<H1>
Schroeder: No public denunciation of China on human rights
</H1>
In the view of German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, China should not be
publicly denounced for human rights violations. In Shanghai, Schroeder said
that such problems should be dealt with in cooperative dialogue. He
considers accusations and complaints to be counterproductive, but said he
plans to touch on the subject of human rights when he meets with the Chinese
leadership tomorrow in Beijing.
Sources among journalists following the state visit indicate that business
dealings worth a total of 6 billion DM will be signed in the presence of
Schroeder and the Chinese President Jiang Zemin tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-6>
<H1>
Eastern Premiers against debt-absolution in health reform
</H1>
The Premiers of the Eastern German states have come out against federal
plans to tie together in a single package absolving the Eastern public
health insurance companies of their debts and reforming the health-care
system. Brandenburg's leader, Manfred Stolpe, following a meeting in Berlin
with his counterparts, said that the debt-release was indeed necessary, but
must not be tied to reforms to the entire system.
Federal Health Minister Andrea Fischer has repeatedly stated that she
intends to stick to the plan to make it part and parcel of the overall
health reform scheme that the Western public health insurers be obliged to
support their Eastern equivalents through a special one-time supplement of
1.3 billion DM.
The Bundestag debates the bill tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-03-7>
<H1>
Superior Administrative Court: Kruemmel nuclear plant stays on-line
</H1>
The Kruemmel nuclear power plant will be able to remain in operation. The
Superior Administrative Court in Schleswig made the ruling this evening,
deciding against two doctors from the Elbmarsch region who instigated the
case. The doctors blame the plant for a plethora of cases of leukemia in the
area. The judges in Schleswig, however, ruled that the defence had
flawlessly shown that the plant in Kruemmel presented no danger to the lives
or health of the surrounding populace.

