<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-1>
<H1>
Provisional EU Commission wants independent control body
</H1>
The German federal government is working to quickly reach a decision in
filling the now-vacant positions on the European Commission after its
members resigned en masse. Speaking to journalists in Athens, Greece,
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said that the people expected a speedy
solution. He added, however, that he hoped the government leaders and
heads-of-state of the EU member countries would concentrate on the "Agenda
2000" reform package at their meeting next week in Berlin, rather than on
personnel debates. Schroeder, in his position as current president of the
EU Council, is presently making his rounds of the member countries in
order to make preparations with the national governments for the EU
summit. He arrived in Rome this evening. Former Italian Prime Minister
Prodi is considered to be a front-runner to succeed resigned Commission
President Jacques Santer.
The interim Commission members, meanwhile, have voted in favour of
establishing an independent controlling body. The new committee will
replace the Commission's auditing department, and will have a free hand in
pursuing its work, as the authority announced in Brussels. The committee
will be able to instigate investigations without special permission, and
to subsequently make suggestions on how then to proceed. Not only the
Commission, but also the European Parliament, and the Ministers' Council
would be subject to scrutiny by this watchdog body. This decision was
inspired by a report from independent experts, charging the Commission
with, among other things, insufficient controls over its administration.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-2>
<H1>
European Central Bank wants more effort from EU member states
</H1>
The European Central Bank has come out against a quick move to lower
interest rates. The Bank's latest monthly report states that the economic
forecast for "Euro-land", as well as the latest wage settlements suggested
maintaining the status quo in monetary policy. It also called on its
member countries to make greater efforts in budget consolidation. The Bank
emphasized that its interest rate policies did not harm economic growth
and employment. It said the greatest challenge among the countries using
the euro currency was fighting unemployment; some progress had been made,
but improvement was not yet sufficient to bring the problem down to a
level which was tolerable.; determined structural measures were urgently
necessary in order to boost the labour market.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-3>
<H1>
Trittin's criticism of SPD; reactions
</H1>
Federal Environment Minister Juergen Trittin (Alliance90/Greens), in an
interview with "stern" newsmagazine which was published yesterday, said
that the SPD could scarcely be differentiated from the CDU, and that, as a
result, there was as much to recommend the Christian Democrats, as
coalition partners, as there was the Social Democrats, in the medium term.
He also said that the idea of the Red-Green coalition as a chance for real
reform in Germany was dead.
Today, spokesmen for the Greens have criticized Trittin's statements.
Executive spokesman, Gunda Roestel, speaking in Dresden, said that a
coalition with the CDU was inconceivable, since that party fanned the
flames of hatred against non-German residents. She said Trittin would do
better to pursue the daily work in his ministry. Green caucus spokesman,
Kerstin Mueller, described Trittin's remarks as mistaken. Federal
Chancellor Schroeder warned against getting too excited about the remarks,
as they represented only one man's opinion. The CDU also had something to
say about Trittin's words; Secretary-General Angela Merkel rejected the
idea of a CDU-Green coalition at the federal level

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-4>
<H1>
Cabinet approves changes in employment promotion laws
</H1>
The federal cabinet has agreed upon changes to the employment promotion
laws (Arbeitsfoerderungsrecht) intended to make it easier for long-term
unemployed people to get back into active careers. As Labour Minister
Walter Riester announced in Bonn, unemployed people will in future be able
to make use of job creation measures after only six months, rather than
twelve, as is currently the case. Riester said that the initiative would
no longer force unemployed people to register with their local Labour
Office (Arbeitsamt) every three months, but they would instead be again
subject to more frequent unannounced compliance checks.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-5>
<H1>
Steel industry warning strikes in the north / Printers demand 6.5% raisellk
</H1>
The steel industry in northern Germany saw expanded warning strikes today
in its ongoing wage conflict. Two days before what may be the final round
of talks, in Gelsenkirchen, approximately 90 percent of steel workers
temporarily laid down their work, according to the IG Metall union. Around
40 businesses were affected. The union is calling for pay increases of 6.5
percent for the approximately 85,000 steel workers in Bremen, North
Rhine-Westphalia, and Lower Saxony. Employers have so far offered 2.2
percent.
In the printing industry, no agreement has yet been reached. Talks are
scheduled to resume on April 15. Union demands here too are for a wage
increase of 6.5 percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-6>
<H1>
Muentefering to become SPD party's "Number Two"
</H1>
Federal Construction Minister Franz Muentefering is apparently to be
designated SPD leader Gerhard Schroeder's second-in-command. The party
leadership made the announcement today. The plan is for Muentefering to
replace Johannes Rau in entering the circle of the five vice-chairmen, at
the party convention in December. Because of the double burden on Federal
Chancellor Schroeder, who also became leader of the party following Oskar
Lafontaine's resignation from that position, Muentefering is to take on
the roll of "Acting Chairman" or First Vice-Chairman. Schroeder has denied
a report in "stern" newsmagazine, which stated that he wanted to install a
Secretary-General in the party leadership.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-17-7>
<H1>
Cebit '99 computer trade show opens in Hanover
</H1>
Federal President Roman Herzog opened the "Cebit" computer trade show this
evening, calling, in his speech, upon the German authorities to make more
use of the internet. Many visits to government offices could be
accomplished quickly and efficiently via the information superhighway, he
said. At 7341, there are more exhibitors at the Cebit this year than ever
before. Almost 38 percent of the represented companies are from abroad.
Organizers expect over 650,000 visitors to the largely internet-oriented
exhibition, which runs until March 24.

