<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-1>
<H1>
Labor market still in crisis
</H1>
The labor market crisis continues, according to the trade unions and the
fall report of the leading institutes of economics, published by the
magazine "Der Spiegel.  In addition, economic experts have made slight
improvements in their business cycle forecast: accordingly, they expect a
2.4 per cent employment increase this year, and 2.8 per cent next year.
However, the German government had been hoping for better numbers.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-2>
<H1>
Arguments about dual citizenship continue
</H1>
 The coalition continues to argue about dual citizenship for children
born to foreigners living in Germany.  Leading politicians from CDU/CSU
opposed again the demands of the Free Democrats to adjust the law
accordingly. German Minister of the Interior, Manfred Kanther, told the
newspaper "Welt am Sonntag" th Germany will not have dual citizenship.
CSU-Head Waigl spoke about a "wrong direction," because split loyalties
could lead to personal conflicts.  Previously, FDP-Head Gerhard had asked
the two parties to come to an understanding.  Gerhard said that CDU and
CSU cannot pretend that Germany'sfive million foreigners don't exist.
According to Gerhard, however, this will not be cause for a break within
the coalition.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-3>
<H1>
Biedenkopf admonishes government
</H1>
Saxony's Prime Minister Kurt Biedenkopf has admonished the government
not to differentiate between East and West in funding public projects.
During the CDU state party conference in Markt Neunkirchen, he said that
whereas an autobahn construction in Saxony qualifies as a balance transfer
project, the same doesn't hold true for a similar activity in West
Germany.  This should no longer be a question about East and West,
admonishes Biedenkopf. Meanwhile, CDU State Chair Haele received 86 per
cent of the votes from delegates to remain in office for another two
years. There was no other candidate.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-4>
<H1>
Kinkel announces EU initiative for peace proceedings in Near East
</H1>
German Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, has announced a new initiative of the
European Union to help advance the peace proceedings in the Near East.  After
a meeting with the president of the Palestinian Autonomy Office, Yasir
Arafat, Kinkel said that the initiative was cleared by the USA and will be
discussed this coming weekend with the foreign ministers of the EU.  He did
not want to mention details.  The head of the PLO appealed to the Europeans
one more time to put constructive pressure on the Israelis to adhere to the
contracts and to advance the peace proceedings.  Other topics of the
discussions include the projected augmentation of the union, and the choice
of candidates for the next years negotiations regarding the joining of new
members.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-5>
<H1>
Kirch not inclined to yield in the debate about soccer broadcast rights
</H1>
Media corporation head Kirch does not want to yield in the debate about
soccer broadcast rights.  Kirch's General Manager Hahn told the
magazine "Focus" that he was open to voluntary agreements, but that he
will not be expropriated.  The minister presidents of all states have
demanded that all games of the national team should be accessible
to the public. According to Hahn there is no leeway between the free
broadcasts of the opening and the end games, as well as the quarter finals
and the semi finals.  The demand for free soccer for all, he continued, is
populistic, but legally not feasible.  His group will fight with all means
against the expropriation of their acquired broadcast rights.  The media
group has purchased the TV rights for the world cup and the European
championship in 2004 for about 3.4 billion Deutsche Mark.  The games will
then be shown on Pay TV.  The minister presidents of all states have
demanded that at least the games of the national team be made available to
the broad public in decoded form.  They have announced further
negotiations with the Kirch group, but also threatened legal action in case
there is no agreement.  The Kirch group obviously intends to be more involved
in the dealings of the Bundesliga as well.  The magazine "Der Spiegel"
reported that the media group has plans to back the construction of
several soccer stadiums in Moenchengladbah  and in Gelsenkirchen auf
Schalke.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-25-6>
<H1>
Sensation during Formula-I-Qualification training
</H1>
The Formula I doesn't need a Hitchcock, they have Villeneuve and
Schumacher.  Both staged a first-class thriller in the contest over the
best starting position for the Great Prize of Europe in tomorrows world
championship finales.  The highlight of the two-man show was the 24th
round during the final training; both Villeneuve and Schumacher finished
in exactly 1 minute, 21.072 seconds.  As if one last proof was needed that
the winning chances are fifty-fifty.  A half an hour later, Heinz-Harald
Frentzen completed the sensation by clocking in at the exact same time,
down to one thousandth of a second, making for a  Formula I world record
before the world championship finales.  Regulations finally divided the
indivisible.  Pole position for the tenth time in the seventeenth season
of the Grand-Prix for Jacques Villeneuve in Williams, because he was the
first to come in on this time; next to him Michael Schumacher, then
Heinz-Harald Frentzen, and Damon Hill.

