<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-1>
<H1>
Zwickel Threatens Strikes in Battle for Full Sick Pay
</H1>
 IG Metal Union Head Zwickel has threatened strikes in the
battle for full sickpay.  At a major demonstration of the union in
Kiel, Mr. Zwickel spoke about a program of injustice for which the
federal government and the employers would be held accountable.
The latter, he said, were about to substitute "killer capitalism" for
social responsibility.  Zwickel emphasized that what had been won
forty years ago after a sixteen-week strike could not be taken away
today by a breach of contract.
<P>
Meanwhile, United Metal president, Mr. Stumpfe, introduced another
wage contract without raises and hinted at the readiness to
compromise on sick pay.  Mr. Stumpfe declared that the main goal had
to be lowering of costs in order to preserve jobs.  As of now, he
stated, the west German metal and electronic industries were losing
500 jobs a day.  Furthermore, Mr. Stumpfe suggested that workers
might have the option of working an additional 1.4 hours per sick day
instead of losing pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-2>
<H1>
Murmann Threatens Liability Litigation Against Work Stoppages
</H1>
In the conflict concerning sick pay, employers are not prepared to
accept further spontaneous work stoppages.  The president of the
Federal Union of Employers' Alliances, Mr. Murmann, announced in
the news magazine FOCUS that there would be liability litigation
in response.  He literally referred to the work stoppages of the past
week as lawless strikes.  Mr. Murmann declared, however, that he was
counting on the easing of tensions.  When people stopped being so
emotional, he said, workers would come to their senses.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-3>
<H1>
Coalition Quarrel About Deficit in the Billions
</H1>
In the Coalition's quarrel about the federal budget deficit in
the billions, FDP Head Gerhard has threatened to break up the
Coalition if there were to be more tax increases.  He charged Federal
Minister for Finance Weigel with leaving the true budget situation
unclear to the government.  Gerhard said, "I am tired of having to
discuss new budgets with new figures every week."  He said that the
FDP had made its contribution to savings by agreeing to postpone the
lowering of the solidarity contribution until 1998.

<P>
Meanwhile, the magazine FOCUS claims to have learned that Mr. Waigel
is planning further cuts to close the 4 billion Marks gap in the
budget.  Supposedly, Mr. Waigel is thinking about a so called reduced
expenditure across the board for all the ministries.  A spokesperson
for Mr. Waigel stated there was nothing definitive.  But, before the
meeting of November 14, it would be made clear how this financial gap
is to be closed.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-4>
<H1>
Schroeder Favors Postponement of European Monetary Union
</H1>
Lower Saxony's Minister President Schroeder has stated that he favors
a postponement of the European Monetary Union.  Debts in Germany,
were simply too high, he said during an interview.  The Coalition
should finally have the courage to state this candidly.
Gerhard Schroeder evidently no longer believes that Germany will be
able to meet the conditions for joining the EMU.  "I have ever
increasing doubts," the SPD-politician stated, "that we can make it
on time.  And if Germany is not part of it, then the whole thing
probably doesn't make any sense." As far as Mr. Schroeder is
concerned, the time has come for the Bonn government to tell the
citizens the truth.  As things stand today, he continued, the
Chancellor or the Federal Minister for Finance should say, "We are
very sorry, but we won't make it; we are postponing the whole thing."
The European Monetary Union [EWU] is to be realized on January 1,
1999.  According to present plans, the Euro is to have taken the
place of the German Mark, the Franc, the Shilling the Lira by 30 June
2002.  In connection with his criticism of the European Monetary
Union, the head of the government of Lower Saxony charges the federal
government with confronting an abyss in matters of finance.  Minister
for Finance Waigel should honestly report on the state of
finances and offer an affidavit of means.  Mr. Schroeder criticizes
"the braggadocio" of the Bonn Coalition.  He said the Coalition
has been offering for months to cut a different tax every week - - a
chaos which bears no relationship to responsible fiscal policy.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-5>
<H1>
Federal Chancellor Kohl Travels to Asia
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Kohl is making a 9-day trip to Indonesia, the
Philippines and Japan.  Of course, Mr. Kohl's main aim is to promote
economic relations with the three countries.  To begin with, however,
the Chancellor will hardly be able to avoid the topic of human rights
- - because of the Nobel Peace Prize given to two East Timor critics
of the regime.  In violation of the rights of nations, Indonesia
has been occupying East Timor since 1975.  Helmut Kohl is traveling
to Asia with a large economic delegation.  Underscored by the group
accompanying him, the alleged purpose of the trip, namely the
solidification and expansion of economic relations, thus far has not
been reflected in headlines in Indonesia.  Instead, the daily paper ,
INDONESIAN OBSERVER, for example, discusses the question whether the
German Federal Chancellor will be discussing human rights with
Indonesian President Suharto and, after consulting with politically
prominent figures in Djakarta, concludes that this will probably not
happen.  To be sure, the Chancellor would have the time.  He will be
spending all of Sunday on an island with Mr. Suharto; presumably,
the order of the day for the two heads of government is exclusively:
fishing.  Meanwhile, their cabinet members are not idle.  The
ministers for postal services and for research will already be having
policy discussions and Federal Minister for Economic Affairs Rexrodt
already arrived in Djakarta on Friday evening.  He was accompanied by
a large delegation.  They are attending the second German-Indonesian
Economic Forum which will be held this weekend.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-6>
<H1>
Another Poisonous Waste Scandal with German Participation
</H1>
Once again, a poisonous waste scandal has been uncovered abroad and,
once again, German companies are involved.  Numerous containers of
hazardous industrial waste from Germany are currently standing in the
harbor of Beirut.  If the waste had been buried, it could have
produced hazardous radiation, according to Lebanese government
attorneys.
A businessman in Lebanon had paid 14 000 Dollars to two German
companies which were to send him high quality plastic granular matter
in return.  36 containers from Germany did indeed arrive in Beirut
harbor but the Lebanese recipient was somewhat surprised about their
content.  The containers did not house the plastic granular matter
they had agreed upon but rather 750 tons of poisonous waste.  A
spokesperson  for the Greenpeace office in Lebanon even knows who is
responsible for this deception: "We have all the documents, faxes
which prove that two German companies, International Trading and
Transport in Saulheim and RC-Gmbh Reifenrecycling in Hagen, these two
companies, working together, had these 36 containers with special
waste transported via Antwerp and Rotterdam on July 17 and, a few
days later, on a number of ships to Beirut."  Greenpeace demands that
the poisonous waste be returned to Germany.  Contact was made with
the German authorities a week ago but no response was received thus
far.  They added that, under no circumstances, could the waste remain
in Lebanon.  "In this country, no one knows what to do with this
waste.  It is full of a mixture of all kinds of plastics contaminated
with chemicals.  As   soon as the attempt is made to destroy
something of this sort, we shall have a poisonous soup which will
poison the local people."
The Lebanon has been popular with international poisonous waste
racketeers for quite some time.  As early as 1987 and 1988,
Greenpeace informs, ca. 16 000 tons of highly poisonous industrial
waste from Italy was transported to Lebanon.   An investigation of
the presumed guilty parties has since been stopped.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-7>
<H1>
Renter's Alliance Rejects FDP's Suggestions for Rent Reform
</H1>
The director of the German Alliance of Government Ministers, Mr.
Ribs, has been critical of the suggestions made by the Free Democrats
concerning legislative rent reform.  On Deutschlandradio Berlin, Mr.
Ribs spoke about a catalog of horrors on Saturday.  Especially the
FDP suggestion to do away with rent control would lead to an
explosion of raises in rent, Mr. Ribs said.  This, he continued,
would have effects harmful to the economy since it would leave
renters less money to spend on other things.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-8>
<H1>
Court Action Against Presumed Reemtsma-Kidnappers Initiated
</H1>
The Hamburg prosecutor's office has now started proceedings against
the two presumed Reemtsa kidnappers, Mr. Kosic and Mr. Richter.
Both are accused of extortionary kidnapping.  The trial is expected
to begin in the spring of 1997 in the criminal court of this
Hanseatic city.  Jan-Philipp Reemtsma war kidnapped in March and st
free thirty-three days later after a ransom payment of 30 Million
Marks.  Mr. Kosik and Mr. Richter were arrested in Spain at the end
of May and extradited to Germany.  There has been no trace as yet of
the presumed mastermind, Mr. Drach.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-9>
<H1>
Car and Motorcycle Exhibit 1996 Opens in Stuttgart
</H1>
 The car and motorcycle exhibit AMA 96 was opened on the
Killesberg on Saturday.  Until the third of November, ca. 350
companies will be availing themselves of 14 exhibition halls
to display products connected with cars and motorcycles.  The
organizers are expecting ca. 150 000 visitors.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-10>
<H1>
Boars on the Autobahn
</H1>
 On Autobahn A81 Stuttgart in the direction of Singen at
least five cars drove into a pack of boars on Saturday morning.
According to the police, six animals were killed.  The cars sustained
some metal damage.  No human beings were injured.  The series of
accidents occurred shortly before 6 a.m. between the Herrenberg and
Rottenburg connector lanes.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-11>
<H1>
Becker and Sampras in the Stuttgart Finals
</H1>
During the ATP tennis tournament, the American Pete Sampras beat
Jan Simmering from the Netherlands 6:3 and 6:4.  He will therefore be
in the Sunday finals where he will play against Boris Becker who beat
the American Michael Chang during Saturday's semifinals 6:4, 6:3.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-26-11>
<H1>
Soccer
</H1>
First Fussballbundesliga, 12th Day

<P>

<P>

<P>

