<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-1>
<H1>
Wage talks in metal industry have failed
</H1>
More than 350,000 workers have staged protests throughout Germany against
imminent cuts in sick pay.  The center of activity was North Rhine-Westphalia.
Employers' Associations called the protests, which took place during regular
work hours, illegal.  According to the unions, 160,000 workers of 750
companies of the steel and metal industry of North Rhine-Westphalia followed
the summons for strike by the IG Metall [union for metal and engineering]
which was meant to be an unambiguous warning to the employers.  Between Siegen
and Minden, Dortmund and Duisburg, everywhere employees gathered in front of
factory gates to demonstrate against the cuts in sick pay.  At steel
processing plants in the Ruhr industrialized region, the furnaces had been
powered down after midnight, production at Krupp, Hoesch and Thyssen came to a
standstill.  At the rallies, the chief negotiator, Harald Schartow, emphasized
once again the uncompromising position of the unions.  Before an audience of
several thousand workers, Schartow said in Duisburg and Dortmund that if sick
pay was cut to any single worker, the entire workforce in all metal processing
plants would go on strike immediately.  The Bavarian branch of the IG Metall
has urged employers to defuse the wage conflict on the negotiation table.  The
IG Metall representative in charge for Bavaria, Werner Neugebauer, said that
in view of the fact that 84% of the employers in the Bavarian metal and
electronics industries are observing the wage agreements, one should be able
to find compromises for the open questions, such as salary raises, job
protection, part time models for older workers.  He considers it possible to
bridge the gaps in sick pay as well as in vacation and Christmas bonuses.
Neugebauer added, however, that the IG Metall would not consent to an
effective stagnation or reduction of wages.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-2>
<H1>
No increase in garbage removal fees
</H1>
Consumers do not have to expect higher fees for garbage removal, at least not
because of higher taxes.  The Federal Financial Court of Munich decided today
that municipal garbage pick-up companies are not subject to corporate taxes.
Had the finding come out differently, the cities had feared an increase in
fees of up to 20%.  This is good news for the consumer, since garbage removal
will not become more expensive.  The judges considered waste pick-up a service
linked to execution of public authority, not a commercial business.  If it had
been found to be taxable, consequences would have been far-reaching, because
also sewage-treatment plants and street cleaning companies would have become
taxable, and hence their services more expensive.  Therefore the court's
decision today was well received.  No decision was made as to whether garbage
removal is subject to V.A.T. taxation, but there had been no court proceedings
on that issue, a court spokesman said.  However, today's ruling plays a
pivotal role in the latter question as well, for if local communities and
districts had been condemned to pay corporate taxes, the V.A.T. would have
been only a question of time.  Consumers would have been required to pay more
for all three, garbage removal, sewage and street cleaning.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-3>
<H1>
Von Weizsaecker advocates closing debate about German-Czech proclamation
</H1>
Former Federal President Richard von Weizsaecker has called upon the involved
parties to quickly conclude the debate about a joint proclamation of Germany
and the Czech republic.  Von Weizsaecker spoke at a ceremony in Prague, during
which he and the former Czech envoy to Berlin, Mr. Cerny, were awarded a prize
dedicated to German-Czech reconciliation.  The prize was donated by
foundations in Prague and Munich and has been awarded since 1994 to people who
have been committed to the furtherance of the German-Czech relationship.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-4>
<H1>
New scientific findings regarding BSE transmissibility
</H1>
Swiss and British researchers have found new clues that the cattle disease BSE
can be transmitted to humans.  Ultimate proof is still missing, though.  While
for the British Prime Minister Major this is hardly a reason to panic, the
German government views things differently and intends to uphold its
sanctions.  Unequivocally, the import ban for British beef has to remain in
effect.  This was Agricultural Minister Borchert's reaction to the latest
British BSE study, and he pointed out that German beef is guaranteed free of
BSE.  According to Borchert, the study's conclusions reflect the statements by
British scientists from March.  However, the experts are still lacking the
last piece of evidence linking the cattle disease BSE to the Jakob-Creutzfeld
Syndrome.  In the meantime, the EU Commission has called on the British
Government to implement the agreed upon schedule for slaughtering British
cattle.  This plan, however, has been suspended by the Major Administration.
As a further protective measure, the German Consumer Association demanded that
the Government impose an import ban for British sheep as well.  The reasoning
goes that if BSE can be transmitted from cattle to humans, then there is also
a risk of infection with the sheep disease Scrapie.  Scrapie pathogens, fed to
cattle via ground sheep products, are believed to have triggered BSE.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-5>
<H1>
Lower Saxony halts livestock transports via Trieste
</H1>
As the first federal state, Lower Saxony intends to stop livestock transports
which run through the Italian port of Trieste.  The Agricultural Ministry in
Hanover has issued a corresponding ordinance which bars veterinarians from
certifying clean slates to shipments of livestock through Trieste.  This
decision came in response to a ZDF [public TV station] report which had
condemned livestock handling at the port of Trieste.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-6>
<H1>
Sixth German AIDS Congress opens in Munich
</H1>
Under the banner "On the Route toward Breakthrough", the sixth German AIDS
Congress has opened in Munich.  For three days, more than 1,500 scientists and
experts will consult on the latest results from research.  In particular,
improved methods of treatment and increased survival times of HIV infected
patients are major points of discussion.  According to chairman Frank-Detlef
Guebel, especially within the last few months AIDS research has taken big
strides.  The latest results from basic research have shown avenues toward
successfully fighting the AIDS virus.  Especially the combination drug therapy
has led to revolutionary insights.  Guebel conceded, however, that at the same
time one is still far away from speaking of a cure for the immune deficiency
disease.  Also the search for a vaccine against the deadly ailment has
remained unsuccessful thus far.  The only representative of the politicians'
guild at the Congress was the Bavarian Health Minister Ms. Barbara Stamm.  She
urged citizens to show more solidarity toward people suffering from AIDS.
AIDS has ceased to be the problem of a few, AIDS concerns the entire society,
she said.  On the side of the Congress, the latest figures about AIDS by the
Robert-Koch-Institute of Berlin were published: Since the beginning of the
1980s, about 60,000 people were infected with HIV, 10,000 of which have
already died.  Although the ratio of infected men is still very high at 85%,
the number of infected women has been increasing continuously over the last
two years.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-7>
<H1>
Grand Coalition of Berlin agrees on austerity package
</H1>
After days of negotiations, SPD and CDU found a consensus last night of how to
close the expected budget gap of 7.3 billion DM for 1997.  Senate spokesman
Butz announced a breakthrough.  The last refinements are to be made in the
afternoon.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-8>
<H1>
Annual convention of the State Minister Presidents
</H1>
 The Minister Presidents of the 16 states will meet today and tomorrow
for their annual convention.  Main topic of the consultations will be the
controversial reform of the regulations governing public servants.  Other
issues are the Scientology organization and the continuation of employment
measures.  Besides, East German heads of government intend to discuss the
question of old debts.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-9>
<H1>
Kinkel finishes the visit to China
</H1>
Concluding his four-day visit to China, Kinkel has left the capital of the
Szechwan province, heading to Ulan Bator in Mongolia.  In Szechwan, Kinkel had
spoken with the province government which had encouraged more investments by
German companies in the mainland.  Moreover, Bonn plans to establish the third
German Consulate General in the People's Republic of China in Szechwan,
besides Shanghai and Canton.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-10>
<H1>
Construction industry cuts sick pay to 80%
</H1>
 As the president of the Central Association of the German
Construction Industry, Mr. Eichbauer, announced, a reduction in the sector's
sick pay to 80% will become effective immediately.  This step was necessitated
by the industry's poor economic situation.  According to Eichbauer, this is
one of the most severe crises since World War II.  Dwindling orders, declining
workforce, foreign low-wage competition and a record number of bankruptcies
are characteristic of the construction industry's current situation.  This
year, about 200,000 construction workers will lose their jobs, according to
Eichbauer.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-24-11>
<H1>
Large scale operation against organized environmental crime
</H1>
 In a nationwide operation against environmental crime staged by
German authorities today, law enforcement and prosecution officers have raided
numerous offices and companies.  According to the ARD [public TV network]
magazine Panorama, 550 police detectives and 10 agents of the public
prosecution were involved.  118 locals in 14 states were searched and eight
arrest warrants were issued.  According to Panorama, officials of the
authorities for environmental control are entangled in the case which
apparently is about illegal disposing of hazardous waste containing mineral
oil, and toxic precipitates.  These substances had been relabeled and then
mixed with other materials, said Panorama.  The financial damage was estimated
at 100 million DM.

