<DOC de-news-1998-12-12-1>
<H1>
Greens party congress
</H1>
For the first time, the Greens are being led by two women. A large
majority of the delegates at the party congress in Leipzig elected Gunda
Roestel and Antje Radtke as co-chairs. While Antje Radcke is being
associated with the left of the party, Gunda Roestel is seen as a more
mainstream politician. Radtke, who is also head of the Hamburg Greens,
became the successor to Juergen Trittin, who took over the Federal
Ministry of the Environment.
Reinhard Buetikofer was elected as the new Greens federal executive
secretary. He was victorious over his fellow candidates on the
third ballot. His predecessor, Ms. Ruehle, wants to concentrate fully
on the European Parliament elections. Angelika Albrecht, from Berlin, is
the spokesperson on women's issues. Dietmar Strehl is the treasurer and
fifth member of the Greens' executive committee.
The elections for the new party council will probably extend into the
evening. The delegates must elect 25 members of the board. The party
council of the Greens is similar in function to the executive
committees of other political parties. For the first time, ministers
and others holding office may run for a position in this body. Several
prominent figures in the party then rose to the occasion, including
federal ministers Andrea Fischer and Juergen Trittin. However, Joschka
Fischer will not run.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-12-2>
<H1>
EU summit
</H1>
The EU summit in Vienna has come to an end without any concrete
conclusions. The remaining issues have been tabled until next year.
Germany will take over the presidency of the EU in the first half of
1999. The Germans are expected to draft proposals for the reorganization
of EU financial and agricultural policies as well as regional support.
In addition, Bonn is to take some initial steps to combat the millions
of instances of unemployment in EU countries. Federal Chancellor
Schroeder stated that he was satisfied with the results of the summit.
He noted, "I have become accustomed to seeing a glass filled halfway as
half full and not as half empty."

<DOC de-news-1998-12-12-3>
<H1>
Bribery scandal at Bavarian Red Cross
</H1>
The bribery scandal which shook the Bavarian Red Cross (BRC) is now
beginning to spread. At this point, investigators are also keeping tabs
on Albert Schmid, BRC president. A spokesperson of the Munich district
attorney's office confirmed that the CSU state parliament official is
under suspicion. Due to Mr. Schmid's parliamentary immunity, Mr. Boehm,
president of the state parliament, was informed as a precautionary
measure. Schmid has been suspected of disloyalty and allegedly told
associates to destroy documents. Mr. Schmid repudiated these accusations
in an interview to "Der Spiegel". In the past several weeks, two
previous BRC heads have been investigated for disloyalty,
corruption, and partiality. Both are accused of purchasing cotton
swabs, blood donation bags and test kits for the BRC at inflated
prices. They were then allegedly compensated by bribes. Losses are
estimated at more than three million marks. According to "Focus"
magazine, the investigation has revealed several other scandals. The BRC
supposedly have used unsafe blood bags and have attempted to conceal two
deaths from the district
attorney's office.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-12-4>
<H1>
Pre-Christmas sales satisfactory
</H1>
According to German retailers, pre-Christmas sales on the third Saturday
of Advent were satisfactory. Approximately 50% of those companies polled
noted an increase of sales in comparison to last year. This year's
best-selling items are mobile phones, toys, jewelry, and textiles.

