<DOC de-news-1999-10-30-1>
<H1>
Talks continue between government and utilities
</H1>
Talks are continuing between the government and the energy industry.
Reports according to which the companies intended to scuttle the talks
were denied today by both sides.  The industry is demanding a resumption
of atomic waste shipments.  Neither the federal economics minister nor
the environmental minister see the negotiations over how to phase out
nuclear power as completely deadlocked.

<P>
Environmental Minister Juergen Trittin saw the threat by nuclear power
operators to pull out of the talks that was bruited about in the
newspapers as a exaggerated gesture that stems more from disunity among
industry participants than anything else.  He said "The legal situation is
this: if transports can be expected to exceed the permitted thresholds,
then they can't be allowed. That's the law."  He denied the allegations of
nuclear operators that the continuing delay in resuming atomic waste
shipments was an attempt to kill the industry using blocking techniques.
Instead the opposite was the case, he said.  Nuclear plant managers had not
carried out government directives and had delayed making arrangements,
and they were now attempting to leap on the government's suggestion that
it might be more flexible.  They were reckoning that the excess years
allotted to older nuclear plants, which would have be shut down sooner,
could be credited to newer plants.

<P>
A report in the "Sueddeutscher Zeitung" said that the power companies
no longer believed that there would be a phase-out agreement with the
Red/Green coalition.  Rather they thought the government would simply
pass a law mandating an end to nuclear power.  But the Hamburg
Electricity Works, for one, denied holding to this opinion.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-30-2>
<H1>
Schroeder en route to Japan and China
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder is en route to his first official visits in Japan and
China.  In the days to come he will discuss German trade issues with both
countries, among other topics.  While the Japanese visit will revolve
mainly around economics, the Chinese visit has an important political
significance. It is a make-up visit for the trip that had to be cancelled
earlier in the year when NATO planes mistakenly bombed the Chinese
embassy in Belgrade.

<P>
Schroeder is taking Economics Minister Werner Mueller and 40 German
executives along with him.  Schroeder, who has often been identified with
the automobile industry, will visit Mercedes and BMW importers in Japan
and those of Volkswagen in China, thus making sure that no German car
manufacturer feels slighted.  It will also make his trip something of an
advertisement for German products.

<P>
Chancellor Schroeder has said that Japan and China are more than just
markets.  In coordination with Amnesty International, he plans to meet
with the Chinese President and Prime Minister to discuss specific cases of
human rights violations.  But this will take place behind closed doors in
the context of quiet diplomacy according to government sources.  The goal
is not to try to outbid other countries with high-sounding statements
about human rights.  Instead, German legal experts should help the Chinese
develop their judicial institutions so that dissidents have more legal
guarantees.

<P>
In Japan, other topics will take up the political agenda, such as the
common desire of both countries to gain permanent seats on the UN
Security Council.  Both industrial countries suffer the effects of an aging
society, and both are beginning to deal with the problem of pension reform.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-30-3>
<H1>
The SPD's left wing mobilizes against supplying tanks to Turkey
</H1>
Things are still simmering in the coalition.  According to Joschka
Fischer, the Green Foreign Minister, Defense Minister Rudolph Scharping
(SPD) today admitted that there were problems between the partners.  Of
course, now that the difficulties are public knowledge, there is always
the possibility of overcoming them.

<P>
The main frictions now seem to be within the Social Democratic Party.
Its left wing has mobilized against the planned shipment of tanks to Turkey.
The SPD district of South Hesse declared itself completely against supplying
German tanks to Turkey.  At a party conference in Frankfurt am Main, the
delegates passed a resolution on the matter stating that such arms exports
could not be answered for in light of the armed conflict with the Kurds.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-30-4>
<H1>
Ceremonies mark the Joint Declaration of Catholics and Lutherans
</H1>
The two churches are taking a large step closer together.  Tomorrow their
joint declaration on the doctrine of justification will be signed in
Augsburg.  This has significance for the relation of the two churches to
one another.  Protestants and Catholics may be able in the foreseeable
future to partake of communion together.  But large differences still
remain between the churches concerning the papacy and the sacraments,
which was clear today during ceremonies in Augsburg.

<P>
Everyone that spoke at the Augsburg city hall agreed that this weekend
would go down in history.  The President of the Ecumenical Council of
Churches, Konrad Reiser, saw special significance in the fact that the
joint declaration on the doctrine of justification would be signed in the
place where the Reformation started.  "It is important that this act can
take place in Germany, here in Augsburg.  I think it is important, in light
of the fact that the Churches first split and the Reformation first began
in this country, that the first important act toward healing that breach
should also take place here."

<P>
But the path to a common declaration was rocky.  243 Lutheran theologians
led a protest as recently as last week, and conservative Catholics have
also criticized the document.  The latter fear a protestantization of the
Catholic church.  On that point, Karl Lehmann, the chairman of the
Catholic conference of bishops, said "It will take a while before centuriesold ways of thinking of behaving can be broken down and a new language,
foreign at first to both partners, can prove itself."  It was thus clear
during
the ceremonies that the signing of the joint declaration was simply a first
step on the long journey towards the unification of the churches.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-30-5>
<H1>
The upcoming season finale in Suzuka
</H1>
Michael Schumacher will have the pole position in tomorrow's decisive
Formula 1 race in Suzuka.  In the last preliminary heat, Schumacher and
his Ferrari beat out Mika Hakkinen and his McLaren-Mercedes.  Bad luck for
Eddie Irvine: he banged into a stack of tires and ended up in fifth place.
After the preliminary heats were over, Schumacher announced that he would
do everything he could to help his teammate Eddie win the world
championship. "In the first place, I'm glad to be here again in the pole
position.  I think this confirms that our car is a good one.  After putting up
with a lot of criticism, we are once again in a position to show just how
good our car is.  I feel very confident that I've been able to get the most
out
of this car.  As regards Eddie, we'll have to see what we can do to pull
him up
a bit towards the front.  My tactics will naturally be to win the race,
since I
will automatically win the car company championship that way, and to put
Eddie in a good position.  We'll see if we pull both off tomorrow."

