<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-1>
<H1>
EU Foreign Ministers: Contact with Iran Renewed; Iraq Mission Honored
</H1>
The EU foreign ministers agreed to re-establish high-level contacts with
Iran after a year-long interruption. In the future, ministers may visit
Iran again as well as invite Iranian ministers for visits. The contacts
had been cancelled after the so-called Mykonos verdict in Berlin. In
spite of special reservations from the German government toward Iran, the
German Foreign Minister also expressed support of a policy of cautious
awareness. After today's meeting of the ministers, Kinkel summarized:
"The views of the political stance passed forward by the EU are also part
of the German view". Kinkel interprets the EU statement to contain an
acknowledgment of the political development in Iran. The CDU and CSU
wanted to support the new moderate leadership of the country.
However, the German businessman Hofer continues to be held in an Iranian
prison with a death sentence for allegedly having had a sexual
relationship with a female Muslim. Kinkel added that as far as Germany
was concerned, the further development of the relations depend largely on
the outcome of this case.
The EU Foreign Ministers also acknowledged the outcome of the
negotiations in Iraq, saying that the agreement could only have been
reached because the community of countries had shown its firm stance.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-2>
<H1>
Parliamentary Faction & Party Leadership Elect Nimsch's Successor
</H1>
The State Parliament faction and the party leadership of Buendnis 90/Die
Gruenen agreed in Wiesbaden that the Green Party politician Hinz will
become the successor to Hessian Environmental Minister Nimsch, who had
stepped down. The decision was unanimous. The small party conference of
Hessia's Greens must vote on the proposal next Wednesday. Ms. Nimsch, who
is also a member of the Green Party, vacated her position yesterday. She
had been accused of assigning projects from her department to friends of
the party without a bidding process.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-3>
<H1>
Talks About Services' Union Continue
</H1>
The leaders of seven German unions continued their talks in Stuttgart
concerning the foundation of a services union. Preliminary issues deal
with objectives and a time-table for a possible restructuring. The unions
of OETV, HBV, GEW, IG Medien, the Railroad and Postal Union, as well as
the DAG which is not part of the German Federation of Unions (DGB), are
participating in the talks. Their combined membership totals
approximately 4 million. In case of a fusion, the services union would
become the largest union with respect to membership, even larger than the
IG Metall.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-4>
<H1>
Merkel: New Gasoline Engines Should Be Considered An Opportunity
</H1>
Environmental Minister Merkel urged the German industry to prepare for
the production and use of much more environmentally-friendly gasoline by
the year 2005. "We should be doing everything in order to implement the
most recent decisions by the European Parliament concerning this matter",
the CDU politician said in an interview with "Hannoversche Allgemeine
Zeitung". The European Parliament had spoken out in favor of much
stricter gasoline norms based on the California model. Merkel stressed
that the industry should consider the intended stricter laws as an
opportunity and not as a risk.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-5>
<H1>
Opening of German-Spanish Summit Meeting
</H1>
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl arrived in Spain tonight for a visit. At
the center of the 13th German-Spanish summit meeting are the crisis in
Iraq and issues dealing with the European unification. Besides the German
and Spanish government leaders, Kohl and Aznar, Foreign Minister Kinkel,
Minister of Defense Ruehe and Economic Minister Rexrodt as well as their
Spanish counterparts are participating in the meeting. It is taking place
in the monastery El Escorial, one of the most important historical sites
in Spain.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-23-6>
<H1>
Monday's Carnival Parades
</H1>
More than 3 million people attended Monday's carnival parades in Cologne,
Dusseldorf, and Mainz. 1.5 million people filled the streets in Cologne.
Along the 6-km-long parade route they enjoyed floats, dancing groups, and
marching bands as well as 140 metric tons of candy and 700,000 bars of
chocolate. Sunny weather in Duesseldorf and Mainz helped to make those
parades successful.

