<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-1>
<H1>
Health insurers present list of dispensable services
</H1>
Public health insurance companies have presented in Bonn today a plan to
significantly reduce services that are not medically necessary.  Only
indispensable medications will be paid in full.  In cooperation with
physicians and on a voluntary basis, one wants to determine which
controversial drugs are not to be covered any longer.  Massages, physical
therapy, speech therapy and posture therapy will be cut to a medically
indicated minimum.  Physicians have already submitted proposals.  To the
disadvantage of the pharmaceutical industry, the fixed amounts currently paid
for medications will be revised.  Hospitals that do not operate economically
and maintain too many beds may lose their contracts.  Requests of
reimbursement for medical care at home, transportation expenditures, and drugs
will come under closer scrutiny.  Physicians who prescribe such services when
unwarranted will be held liable.  The health insurers urged the government to
change legislation accordingly, in order to render the objectives feasible.
They furthermore called on the governing coalition to withdraw its reform of
the health care system.  Due to new laws capping premiums, the public health
insurance companies expect a deficit of 20 billion DM by the end of the year.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-2>
<H1>
Seehofer criticized health insurers' austerity program
</H1>
Federal Health Minister Seehofer said in Bonn today that the latest austerity
program is premature and cannot be considered a reasonable basis of
discussion.  In the opinion of the President of the National Physicians'
Chamber, Mr. Vilmer, the catalog of dispensable services is aimed at shifting
the risk of sickness from insurance companies onto physicians.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-3>
<H1>
Damage claims due to truck drivers strike are possible
</H1>
The French truck drivers have somewhat relaxed their barricades at the
French-German border.  Five border crossing points have been cleared,
including Gamsheim and Neulauterburg in Alsace.  German companies that
incurred financial losses due to the strike of the French truck drivers may
file damage claims with the French authorities, Federal Transportation
Minister Wissmann said.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-4>
<H1>
Postage hike likely to be postponed another time
</H1>
It seems that the Post Office has to postpone an increase in postage for
letters and postcards yet another time.  The SPD would not consent to such
plans, the party's postal expert, Mr. Buri, announced in view of a meeting of
the Regulatory Council scheduled for Monday.  The CDU-governed state of Saxony
would oppose a raise in postage, too.  Buri emphasized that the latest
compromise proposed by the Coalition is without any chance as well.  The
latter would call for jacking up the postage for postcards to 1.00 DM as early
as April 1, 1997, but postpone a price increase for letters until September 1.
SPD approval is subject to the conditions that the plan for closing postal
branch offices be changed, consumer discounts be introduced, and a decision
about the entanglement of Post Office and Postal Bank be reached.  At the
opening of its extraordinary convention in Magdeburg, the union for postal
workers protested against the closing of postal branch offices.  The union's
chairman, Mr. Haren, criticized that one is being too careless about the
potentially explosive social impact.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-5>
<H1>
SPD demands scheme for ecological restructuring of economy
</H1>
SPD Member of Parliament Mr. Kulwein complained that the federal budget
contains no items relating to a restructuring of the nation's economy under
ecological aspects.  He said the appropriations for the Ministry of
Environment are hardly worth mentioning and contribute nothing to
environmental protection.  The SPD, on the other hand, would shift the burden
of taxation from labor to consumption of energy and natural resources, Kulwein
explained.  At the same time, he underscored his party's commitment to phase
out nuclear energy.  Prior to the budget debate, the Opposition heavily
criticized the government's social policy.  Labor Minister Bluem countered
that the SPD has been announcing the collapse of the welfare state in every
debate for fifteen years.  The latter, however, is one of the best in the
world and will continue to exist.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-6>
<H1>
Thierse criticized freeze on funds for East German Development Program
</H1>
The deputy chairman of the SPD, Mr. Thierse, has criticized a resolution by
the parliamentary appropriations committee to withhold almost 3 billion DM in
funds for the East German Development Program, called "Aufbau Ost".  It is
audacious that the Coalition in Bonn freezes money direly needed in East
Germany, Thierse told the "Chemnitzer Freie Presse" newspaper.  The decision
has to be revoked immediately, he urged.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-7>
<H1>
Resignation of VW executive Lopez expected
</H1>
In Wolfsburg [location of VW corporate headquarters], there is an increasing
number of signs pointing to a resignation of the VW executive Lopez who is
under suspicion of industrial espionage.  The news agency "Deutsche
Presseagentur" reported today that Lopez intends to ask the Supervisory Board
of VW for his discharge.  The board would accept a resignation.  Previously,
the Handelsblatt newspaper had already written that the VW director of
purchasing would leave.  The Volkswagen Corporation has not made an official
comment yet.  Opel and its U.S. parent company General Motors have accused
Lopez of having taken secret documents with him upon his transfer to VW.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-8>
<H1>
Iran threatens to sue Germany for arms delivery
</H1>
The Iranian leadership has repeated its threat today to sue Germany for
delivering weapons to its neighbor, Iraq.  The judicial authorities want to
file for legal proceedings, the government-controlled Iranian radio station
quoted Ayatollah Isadi, the official in charge.  It remained open, however,
before which institution this should take place.  The broadcast went on saying
that President of State Rafsanjani has forwarded his response to the letter by
Chancellor Kohl.  In his correspondence, the Chancellor had made an effort to
reduce current tensions between the two countries, due to the Mykonos trial of
Berlin.  Upon request by Alliance 90/The Greens, tomorrow the Bundestag will
vote on the government's position toward Iran and its pledge to continue a
critical dialog with Teheran.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-9>
<H1>
Klaus to meet Kohl next week
</H1>
The Czech Minister President will meet Chancellor Kohl at the beginning of
next week, at the occasion of the OSCE summit (Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe) in Lisbon.  Corresponding reports from Prague were
confirmed in Bonn in the afternoon.  It is expected that the two heads of
government will talk about the planned German-Czech proclamation.  Kohl has
repeatedly emphasized that the declaration should be signed still this year.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-10>
<H1>
Former Daimler-Benz subsidiary Fokker likely to be liquidated
</H1>
Negotiations to save the ailing Dutch aircraft manufacturer Fokker have
failed, the Dutch Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr. Wijers, explained.
Talks about a takeover with the South Korean Samsung group broke off.
Currently, there is no other bid to buy Fokker, Wijers said.  It seems the
dissolution of Fokker has become unavoidable.  Fokker had filed for bankruptcy
this spring, after Daimler-Benz had cut off financial support to offset
Fokker's losses.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-11>
<H1>
Large fine for former director of Intelligence Agency, Mr. Seidel
</H1>
The former director of the German Intelligence Agency's office in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Mr. Seidel, has been convicted to a fine of DM
100,000.  The Regional Court of Schwerin found him guilty of embezzlement and
of using his position to his personal advantage.  Between 1992 and 1994,
Mr. Seidel had purchased three luxury cars on behalf of the Ministry of the
Interior, in order to obtain an agency discount.  However, he used the cars
privately and resold each after one year.  The car dealer, with whom Seidel
had run these transactions, was fined DM 120,000.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-12>
<H1>
Murder of entrepreneur couple of Witten
</H1>
An entrepreneur couple of Witten is likely to have become victim of violent
crime.  The two corpses of the couple, that had been missing since Monday,
were found in the trunk of their car, the police and public prosecution of
Bochum announced at a news conference.  ID documents of the two people were
found in the vehicle.  The 37-year-old woman and her 43-year-old husband were
both killed with a knife.  They were found attired.  However, they were not
killed at the same location, i.e. in their house in Witten.  As of now, one
suspect has been arrested, but the police has declined any comment about their
identity.  It was said, however, that it is not the couple's nephew.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-28-13>
<H1>
Consumer organizations welcome labeling of genetically altered foods
</H1>
Consumer organizations have hailed the decision by the European Mediation
Committee to require labeling for genetically altered foods.

