<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-1>
<H1>
Metals union boss Zwickel calls management's offer "ridiculous"
</H1>
The chairman of the IG Metall union, Klaus Zwickel, has rejected the
latest offer from employers in Baden-Wuerttemberg, calling it "ridiculous"
in the "Berliner Tagesspiegel" newspaper. He added that management
obviously underestimated the seriousness of the situation. Zwickel's
second-in-command, Juergen Peters, speaking in Kassel, also criticized the
proposal, but said that he did acknowledge movement and a willingness to
keep negotiating on the part of the employers. The union is maintaining
its demand for a 6.5 percent increase in earnings, supported today by
warning strikes by 150,000 employees in the industry across the country.
The employers of Baden-Wuerttemberg, from their negotiating base in
Leinfelden-Echterdingen, had increased their previous offer by 0.3
percent, to a 2.3 percent pay raise. As previously offered, this increase
would also be accompanied by a one-time profit-dependent bonus of 0.5
percent of a year's pay.
The next round of negotiations has been set for February 9.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-2>
<H1>
First wage negotiations for post office, Postbank, and Telekom unsuccessful
</H1>
The first round of wage negotiations for employees of the post office,
Postbank, and Telekom has concluded without a settlement. Management has
not yet presented an offer. The negotiations for the three enterprises are
being conducted separately, and will resume next week. The postal union is
seeking a 5.5 percent wage increase, as in the public service.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-3>
<H1>
Schroeder: bill on tax relief for families next week
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has announced that Finance Minister
Oskar Lafontaine will present a bill to relieve the tax burden on
families, as demanded by the Federal Constitutional Court, next week. In
an interview on ARD television, Schroeder emphasized that the equalization
of the tax burden on families would be handled in steps, in a manner
compatible with economic growth. He also rejected the idea of increasing
indirect taxes as a means of offsetting the loss of federal revenue.
Schroeder said he much preferred a combination of cutting expenditures and
plugging tax loopholes. The chancellor reaffirmed his government's
commitment to reducing the taxation of businesses to 35 percent as of
January 1 of next year, despite the recent ruling on the taxation of
families. He added that further relief could not be expected.
Schroeder also criticized remarks made by Green party spokesman, Antje
Radcke, who has repeatedly called for the remaining lifespans of nuclear
power plants to be set at less than 20 years. He suggested that she not
put herself and her party under pressure, and avoid naming dates. The
chancellor said that a consensus on the nuclear energy issue could only be
reached together with the industry.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-4>
<H1>
EU and NATO intensify pressure on Yugoslavia
</H1>
NATO and the EU have increased their pressure on the Yugoslavian
leadership to attend the Kosovo conference planned for Saturday. Following
promises of attendance by the political representatives of the Kosovo
Albanians as well as the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army, EU representative
Wolfgang Petritsch and American negotiator Christopher Hill met with
Yugoslavian leaders in Belgrade. On French television, Yugoslavian
Information Minister Comnenic expressed reserved optimism about
participation, but said that the final decision lies with the Serbian
parliament, which meets tomorrow.
In Brussels, the NATO council began planning for the possibility of
sending in ground forces to enforce a hoped-for peace agreement. American
Defence Minister William Cohen announced in Washington that up to 4000
American soldiers could take part in an operation of that sort.
In New York, meanwhile, the UN Security Council is discussing a motion
submitted by Belgrade to condemn NATO for its threats of a military strike
against Yugoslavia.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-5>
<H1>
Farm incomes down
</H1>
German farmers, after several good years, must now prepare for lean times
again. That is the assessment made in the 1999 Agricultural Report passed
by the Federal Cabinet in Berlin today. Agriculture Minister Karl-Heinz
Funke predicted an income drop of between 2 and 6 percent. The primary
reason for the decline is the collapse of pork prices around the world.
As of the end of the previous economic year, German farmers had seen their
profits up by an average of 3.3 percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-6>
<H1>
Federal President Herzog made honorary citizen of Berlin
</H1>
German Federal President Roman Herzog has been made an honorary citizen of
the City of Berlin. Berlin's Mayor, Eberhard Diepgen, honoured the German
head of state at a ceremony in the "Rotes Rathaus" (Berlin City Hall),
calling him an approachable president, at ease in dealing with people and
their problems. In his thank-you speech, Herzog spoke in favour of Berlin
as the place from which to set course for a modernized Germany.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-03-7>
<H1>
Mueller revises remarks about withdrawal from nuclear energy
</H1>
Federal Economic Minister Werner Mueller has backed off from comments he
had made on the issue of phasing out Germany's use of nuclear energy. In
an interview with "stern" newsmagazine, Mueller specifically omitted
mention nuclear power as a means of covering the country's increasing
demand for energy. On ARD television, he said that the Coalition has made
a commitment to withdrawing from nuclear energy, and would carry it out.
Mueller, who does not belong to any party, had been criticized by both the
Greens and Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder for having said that
Germany might have to return to the use of nuclear power in a few decades.

