<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-1>
<H1>
German soldiers protest in Berlin against cutbacks
</H1>
Approximately 5000 Bundeswehr soldiers protested in Berlin against defense
cutbacks.  It is the first time that soldiers have ever held a demonstration
while in uniform.  Defense Minister Rudolph Scharping defended the cuts
during an address to the soldiers, but conceded there were shortfalls in
equipment.

<P>
If the government goes ahead with its plan to cut 18.6 billion marks from
defense in the coming four years, they should make it clear that they are
removing the life's blood from the army.  Bernhard Jartz, leader of the
Federal Union of the Army, is mad, along with thousands of other members
of the Bundeswehr.  He says that the announced cuts have destroyed
whatever trust soldiers still had in the political establishment.  He said
that an active German foreign policy calls for an army that, in strength
and arms, is equal to Germany's weight in Europe.  He also condemned the
different levels of pay in the army.  It's an absurdity, he said, that
nine years after unification soldiers should still get Western pay and
Eastern pay.  He called on the government to fix the holes in the law.

<P>
Defense Minister Scharping said it was bit odd, wasn't it, that the union
picked now to protest? The Bundeswehr has been in the process of
restructuring for years.  In the course of those changes, the army has
shrunk to half its former size, but almost all of that happened under the
previous government.  The Defense Minister praised the education and
motivation of Bundeswehr members, and added his voice to the complaints
about outdated technology.  But Scharping declared himself firmly for the
continuation of conscription.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-2>
<H1>
The German army will not invade East Timor
</H1>
Defense Minister Scharping also stated at the Berlin demonstration that
the army would not take part in a UN peacekeeping mission in East Timor.
He said the Germany army could not help there.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-3>
<H1>
Eichel comes out for obligatory private old age financial provision
</H1>
In order to safeguard pensions, the system has to be changed.  On this,
the SPD and the CSU/CDU agree.  But a lot of disagreement remains
about how it should be changed.  Finance Minister Hans Eichel wants to
make supplemental private savings for old age mandatory.  The CDU/CSU
is certainly ready to discuss the idea, according to its leader, Wolfgang
Schaeuble.  The only part of it that puts them off is its mandatory character.

<P>
Labor Minister Walter Riester was the first person in Schroeder's cabinet
to come out for mandatory private old age provision.  His plan, which was
to introduce supplemental insurance paid for solely by the employee, fell
apart in June in the face of opposition from the red/green coalition.  But
now Riester's idea has gained support from Eichel.  The Finance Minister
told "Der Spiegel" that pensions simply can't be financed in the future
through payroll contributions alone.  Eichel added that saving the additional
money can't simply be left to individual whim.  It has to be mandatory.  He
thought an appropriate vehicle for such individual provision might be
investment funds, for example.

<P>
Schaeuble, the leader of the CDU, emphasized to "Der Spiegel" that he was
against the mandatory aspect.  Instead taxes should be lowered to
stimulate personal savings and corporate pension schemes should
subsidized.

<P>
In related news, Thomas Goppel, the General Secretary of the CSU, denied a
report by the magazine "Focus" that he had come out in an interview for a
completely privatized system of old age insurance.  He said he never
abandoned the party line that the state old age insurance system must be
maintained.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-4>
<H1>
Upcoming state and local election in Thuringia and Rhineland-Palatinate
</H1>
After the devastating results in last weekend's elections in Saarland and
Brandenberg, the SPD is now threatened with new electoral set-backs.
Pollsters say that the SPD will have to accept losses in both the state
election in Thuringia and the local elections in Rhineland-Palatinate.
Things look especially bad for the SPD in Thuringia.

<P>
The SPD will be fighting an uphill battle in Berlin as well thanks to the
weakness of Richard Dewis, the state's interior minister, who is heading
the SPD's list.  When voters are asked to compare him head to head with
Minister President Bernhard Vogel of the CDU, Dewis comes away with a
pitiful share of the vote.  This may have something to do with scandals
swirling around the interior ministry.

<P>
The CDU, on the other hand, can pretty much count on a big victory.  The
only question is whether or not they will get an absolute majority.  The
last polls indicated that they would.  Minister President Vogel is popular
and is widely respected for his competence.  It is possible the CDU will
carry all 44 electoral districts.  The SPD is now confined to hoping it can
defend second place.  The PDS will probably improve its share, and could
possibly pull in front of the SPD. Two parties that are given no chance to
enter the Thuringia parliament are the Greens and the FDP.  But this is the
story everywhere in eastern Germany.  The head of the FDP in Thuringia
has gone so far as to make campaign ads for the CDU.  The radical right
parties can be trusted to get 6% of the vote, but it will be split three ways,
between the DVU, the Republicans and the NPD.

<P>
The real surprises are in the local elections in North Rhine-Westphalia,
especially in the "red belt" of the Ruhr valley.  Even there a few CDU
victories are expected this time around.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-5>
<H1>
Schroeder says SPD needs to be more self-conscious
</H1>
Gerhard Schroeder, leader of the SPD, called on his party to show more
self-consciousness and to close ranks more.  At a regional party
conference in Emden, Schroeder said the SPD had earlier reached its
electoral goals because it had given up the strategy of "us against us."
"That's where we have to begin -- in Berlin and everywhere else," he said.
In the Chancellor's view, the SPD has been thrown on the defensive because
it has been lacking in self-consciousness. The task now before the party
is to push through the common good against the opposition of powerful
interest groups.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-11-6>
<H1>
Dispute in the Brandenburg SPD
</H1>
The Brandenburg SPD is moving toward a coalition with the CDU.  But Regine
Hildebrandt, the SPD Minister for Social Work, is resisting the idea and
the Potsdam Social Democrats are busy trying to ward off a split.  They
are trying to convince Hildebrandt to continue on as Social Work Minister
under a grand coalition.  She announced earlier that she would not be
available for such an alliance.

