<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-1>
<H1>
Exploratory Talks in Hamburg
</H1>
SPD and the Green Alternative Party in the Hanseatic city of
Hamburg spend six hours discussing the possibility of a coalition
government. Head of the Hamburg branch of the SPD, Anke Kuhlbier,
reported that the SPD has now laid the framework to decide whether it
should begin to negotiate a coalition with the CDU or the Green
Alternative Party. The SPD leader indicated that all of the burning issues
have been thoroughly discussed with the Greens. The SPD local executive
board will decide on Monday whether the CDU or the Greens should be their
coalition partner.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-2>
<H1>
Dispute about Helmut Kohl's Party Chairmanship
</H1>
A dispute flared up in the CDU concerning the role Chancellor Helmut
Kohl plays as party chairman. The chairman of the CDU Youth Organization
"Junge Union," Peter Escher, met with sharp criticism when he suggested
that Chancellor Kohl should step down as chairman after the election next
year. CDU General Secretary Hinze considered this request quite
outlandish. Mr. Escher called for new people and new ideas to reinvigorate
the CDU.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-3>
<H1>
Rampage in Berlin after Unification Day Festivities
</H1>
While the main ceremonies of the day of German Unity
culminated in a concert by the rock group Scorpions in Stuttgart, violence
once again broke out in Berlin. Approximately 50 masked figures set a
supermarket and cars on fire. The  cars were lying on their sides and were
used as a barricade around "Kaiser's Cafe," a supermarket which was looted
and then set aflame. Over half of the store area was consumed in flames at
midnight. The fire department had the fire under control by 1:00 a.m.
They also extinguished fires that had spread to near-by vehicles. Damage
is estimated in the millions of Marks. The police arrived too late as the
50 masked assailants had already fled the scene; over 200 officers were
powerless to do anything. On the evening before the incident, about 20
protesters had their own Unification Day celebration on Friedrichstrasse
where hooligans threw molotov cocktails at parked cars.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-4>
<H1>
SPD Calls for Wages of over 610 Marks to Receive Social Benefits
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg division of the SPD is attempting to
ensure that wages equaling 610 Marks or more will be eligible to have
social benefits covered. The Social Democrats voted at their state party
conference to address the issue by adding a new passage to a draft of a
new generational agreement. The  benefit contributions for minor jobs of
this type should be made by the employer. The flat tax rate of
twenty percent should then be dropped. The project draft is expected to be
presented at the federal party conference in Hanover in December.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-5>
<H1>
Labor Unions Hope for Higher Wage Agreements
</H1>
Labor unions hope to target higher wage agreements in the upcoming
wage bargaining rounds than in previous years. IG Metall head Klaus
Zwickel asked to put an end to false modesty. While the level of
productivity had increased and profits, exports, and share prices were on
the rise, wages had not followed suit. Even several top officials
demanded wage increases of approximately two percent above the rate of
inflation. SPD leader Oskar Lafontaine supported the proposal, adding that
a moderate wage policy could be of value, but not on a permanent basis.
Federal Minister of Economics Guenther Rexrodt countered that extended
wage demands aggravate economic problems, are deadly for the labor market,
and give the wrong message to investors.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-04-6>
<H1>
Wissmann Proposes to Lower the Legal Blood Alcohol Level
</H1>
Federal Minister of Transportation Matthias Wissmann supports attempts to
lower the legal level of blood alcohol to 50 milligrams of alcohol per
liter of blood. Mr. Wissmann conceded in an interview that he could well
imagine how a driver might be fined and have two penalty points recorded
at the Flensburg database for driving at this blood level. However, the
Minister of Transportation was not willing to support a plan that would
revoke driving privileges for driving at a blood alcohol level of 50
milligrams; such disqualifications should continue to occur at the
previously established level of 80 milligrams per liter of blood.

