<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-1>
<H1>
German Central Bank wants continued self-discipline after monetary union
</H1>
The president of the German Central Bank, Tiedtmeyer, has demanded of all
the countries joining the European Monetary Union that they each continue
to exercise strict financial discipline where their national budgets are
concerned. Speaking at the German Savings Bank Day in Leipzig, Tiedtmeyer
said that negligence must be guarded against following the decisive
European summit on Saturday. He reaffirmed the German Central Bank's
reservations about the inclusion of Belgium and Italy in the common
currency. Tiedtmeyer also warned against creating uncertainty among the
populace regarding monetary union, saying that a stable euro could not
possibly lead to a social catastrophe.
Federal President Herzog called for more public acceptance of the euro.
Party leader Lafontaine of the SPD said the new common currency could end
up more stable than the Mark.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-2>
<H1>
Federal government expects end to European Central Bank fight
</H1>
The federal government has reiterated its rejection of the idea of ending
the battle over who should lead the European Central Bank by sharing the
term in office between the two camps. Chancellor Kohl, according to
reports from within the government, told his cabinet that such an
arrangement was not in keeping with the terms of the Maastricht Treaty.
The government is reported to be confident, however, that the dispute can
be settled at the special EU summit in Brussels on Saturday.
The majority of member countries favour the Dutch candidate Duisenberg;
France is pushing for its own candidate, French Central Bank President
Trichet.
The German cabinet today nominated the Chief Economist of Germany's
Central Bank, Issing, for the Directorship of the European Central Bank.
Also, State Finance Secretary Stark is to be the new vice-president of the
German Central Bank.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-3>
<H1>
SPD in Saxony-Anhalt conducts negotiations with CDU and PDS
</H1>
Three days after the Landtag (state parliament) elections in
Saxony-Anhalt, the Social Democrats today began initial discussions with
both the CDU and the PDS. Premier Hoeppner met with the leader of the PDS
parliamentary group, Sitte, who offered to renew the deal in place between
the two parties before the election, whereby the PDS would tolerate an SPD
government. Hoeppner subsequently made it clear that he was only sounding
out how quickly a stable government could be established, but that really
there was no question of a coalition or a "toleration contract" with the
PDS.
Earlier, the state chairmen of the SPD and the CDU, Vittenscher and Daehre
had met, but agreed to be silent about the outcome of the discussion.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-4>
<H1>
Gasoline price of DM 5 not part of Green election platform
</H1>
The controversial idea of raising the price of gasoline to DM 5/litre
within 10 years, put forward by Alliance 90/the Greens, will not be part
of the group's election platform, according to executive spokesman
Roestel. In an early release of an interview with the newspaper
"Augsburger Allgemeine", Roestel also criticized her party's public
handling of the idea, saying that a calculation model had been presented
as a kind of dogma, and that that had been a mistake.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-5>
<H1>
FDP boss Gerhardt: Coalition planning DNA databank law
</H1>
According to FDP party leader Gerhardt, the governing coalition in Bonn
has reached an agreement to pass a law for the establishment of a genetic
databank, similar in principle to a fingerprint databank. Gerhardt told
the "Berliner Morgenpost" newspaper that Justice Minister Schmidt-Jortzig
had thus won out over opposition by Internal Affairs Minister Kanther, who
recently issued an order to the Federal Criminal Office to create such a
databank, but did not feel it necessary to establish a specific legal
basis for it. The 'genetic fingerprints' of sex offenders and other
criminals will be kept in the database, to make identifying them faster if
they re-offend.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-6>
<H1>
Education Minister Ruettgers: career training should be reformed
</H1>
Career training has become too specialized, in the view of the federal
government. Federal Education Minister Ruettgers explained that businesses
would not be hiring apprentices because what they learned had little to do
with what they needed to know. The government wants to change that, and
reform career training. Ruettgers presented his vision today, and it
includes formal training programmes in new career areas and more practical
curricula. The plan is intended to ensure that the demand for
apprenticeship positions, expected to increase steadily until
approximately the year 2005, will be able to be met in the future. The
controversial 'lesser jouneyman ticket' (kleiner Gesellenbrief) -
documentation of those portions of formal training successfully completed
by an individual who does not fulfill all the requirements of a full
journeyman's ticket - is included in the plan.
A statement by the minister to the effect that a turn-around in the
training market had been reached in 1997, with a balance between supply of
and demand for training placements, generated plenty of argument from the
opposition SPD and the labour unions.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-29-7>
<H1>
Exchange rates and stock markets
</H1>
Exchange rates and stock market information are unfortunately unavailable
today due to technical reasons. We apologize for any inconvenience and
thank you for your understanding.

