<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-1>
<H1>
Federal insurance for employees opposes regional rates
</H1>
 The Federal insurance for employees (BfA) opposes
the regionalization of social contributions called for by Bavaria.
It claims that such a move would endanger the pension system and
the state of the German economy.  The president of the BfA, Mr.
Rische said the realization of the Bavarian proposals, which,
according to Mr. Rische, partially originated during the era of the
horse and buggy, would surely be counter-productive to making
jobs more flexible and eliminating bureaucratic obstacles.  The
Munich plans also caused controversy within the Christian Union
parties.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-2>
<H1>
Mr. Bluem calls for compromise
</H1>
Federal Minister of Labor Bluem has once again called for the
Coalition and the SPD to compromise in the matter of the pension
dispute.  The CDU-politician stated that speedy agreement in the
matter of raising the value-added-tax was necessary to lessen the
burden on the pension coffers.  Anyone who wished to prevent a 21
per cent contribution in 1998 would have to craft a compromise.
The head of the SPD-faction, Mr. Scharping, declared that his
outlook on the chances for agreement had improved since the budget
debate.  Mr.  Scharping averred the readiness of his party to
stabilize the cost of fringe benefits immediately and then to agree
on decreasing social contributions.  He repeated the offer made by
the head of the party, Mr. Lafontaine, that the Coalition was
willing to discuss anything, even the lowering of the highest tax
rate.  On Friday, the Coalition and the SPD had made clear that
they want to work together to prevent raising the pension
contribution to 21 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-3>
<H1>
Mr. Lafontaine defends Mr. Schroeder
</H1>
 A few days before the SPD party convention in Hannover, the
head of the party, Mr. Lafontaine has defended the minister
president of Lower Saxony, Mr. Schroeder, against the criticism
leveled by members of his own party.  With the announcement that he
would only go to Bonn as Chancellor and not as a minister, Mr.
Schroeder, considering the imminent election of the state
parliament of Lower Saxony, had said something that is actually
self-understood, Mr. Lafontaine stated.  Anything else would not
meet with the approval of his state constituency.  In contrast, the
Bonn SPD-faction head, Mr. Scharping, referred to Mr. Schroeder's
statement as unfortunate, indeed even imprudent in its formulation.
The minister president of Rhineland-Palatinate made a similar
statement.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-4>
<H1>
Buendnis 90/The Greens support gene technology in medicine
</H1>
 Buendnis 90/The Greens of Baden-Wuerttemberg are in
favor of a directed and careful use of gene technology in the
medical field.  A proposal to this end, submitted by the party board
and seconded by the state parliamentary fraction, was passed today
at the small party conference in Ettlingen near Karlsruhe.  The
party acknowledges that in principle, gene technology can contribute
to the cure of diseases, but cautions that one needs to take a
determined stance in order to take a role in shaping uses for the
new technology.  The Greens in the South West remain opposed to the
use of gene technology in food and agriculture.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-5>
<H1>
Hesse FDP picks state candidates for 1998 federal elections
</H1>
In Friedberg, the Hesse FDP has worked out its list of state
candidates for the parliamentary elections to be held next year.
The result was no surprise.  FDP federal chair Wolfgang Gerhardt and
parliamentary group chair Herrmann Otto Solms will lead the Hesse
liberals into the 1998 parliamentary elections.  There were some
criticisms, however.  For example, Mr. Solms was criticized for his
role in the party's financial crisis.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-6>
<H1>
Physicians' Association investigates against labs in Bavaria
</H1>
According to a recent report in the news magazine "Der Spiegel," it
is common practice for laboratory physicians to falsify treatment
descriptions on their bills.  A special team of the Physicians'
Association in Bavaria is currently checking the books of all fiftytwo labs in the state, reports the magazine.  One fifth of all
German laboratory tests are conducted in Bavaria.  "Der Spiegel"
quotes experts to believe that up to a third of the associated bills
are tampered with, totaling to twenty million Marks in illegal
income for the laboratories.  Upon conclusion of the investigation
against the labs, each of the four thousand doctor's offices in
Bavaria who are doing laboratory tests on the side will be
investigated, also.  The magazine adds that several of the
laboratory physicians practicing in the state are refusing to give
the investigators access to their files.  One reason quoted is the
suspicion that the investigation is being conducted by competitors
trying to gain an unfair advantage.  However, the Physicians'
Association is not endorsing this line of reasoning, arguing that
all involved are bound by the data protection act.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-29-7>
<H1>
Pressure on Bertelsmann-Kirch Group increases
</H1>
Media giant Leo Kirch has caused a stir with his plans to air the
soccer world cup championships of 2002 and 2006 almost exclusively
on pay TV channels.  Soccer fans are highly opposed to the plan, but
also the world soccer association is fighting Kirch's idea.  In
addition, the media giant is now facing opposition in Brussels, as
well.  The Bertelsmann-Kirch Group has confirmed that in its
capacity as a major share holder of the cable TV station "Premiere"
it has received a letter from the director-general's office five,
which houses the EU commission in charge of unfair competition.  The
letter calls "Premiere" to freeze its use and sale of the so-called
"D-Box" until a final decision is issued.  The Kirch-Group and CLT-
UFA, which is a daughter of Bertelsmann, has until December 3 to
issue a statement concerning this order.  Both media companies
announced that they would hold talks with the EU commission on
Monday, adding that the commission's reasoning did not make sense to
them.  They explained that the decision to use the D-Box for
"Premiere" as well, was a strictly technical matter and unrelated to
the planned fusion of "Premiere" and "Kirch DF-1."   Even if the EU
competition commission did not approve the fusion of the two pay TV
channels, the D-Box was still slated for use as a joint German
standard, they added.

