<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-1>
<H1>
Nothing new from Nuremberg
</H1>
In February the unemployment figures have hardly moved. Stagnation on a
high level is the short summary Bernhard Jagoda presented to journalists in
Nuremberg. While the figures declined by 21,000 in former Western Germany,
there was a rise by 17,500 in the East. This means that the number of
unemployed people fell insignificantly to now 4,819,000 or 12.6 % which is
147,000 up against February last year, where the quota was 12.2 %. Only the
mild weather during February, which favoured out-door professions prevented
an increase of the number of jobless people above the Mio 5 limit. The
economic consolidation in Western Germany, which has been suggested now for
months, seems to continue with recruitment going strong, but the gap to the
situation in Eastern Germany widens further and further. Bavaria
experienced a decrease by 4,000 in unemployment figures, which has led to a
total of 508,000 or 8.7 %.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-2>
<H1>
Bundestag: deliberation over treaty of Amsterdam
</H1>
The Bundestag started its final deliberations over the treaty governing EU
reforms. The treaty of Amsterdam is backed both by the ruling coalition and
the Social Democrats. In his opening speech the Foreign Minister Klaus
Kinkel praised the treaty by claiming it would strengthen the principle of
majority decisions and gave more power to the European Parliament. The
Bundestag must approve of the treaty with a majority of 66.6 % [as it will
lead to a change of the constitution], and today there were no indication
that it could fail reaching the required votes, which lead to a very calm
debate. Klaus Kinkel also reminded the Green Party, who wanted to abstain
from the vote, that Germany has to keep its European credibility. According
to Klaus Kinkel the Euro will come without any doubt. All that was still
needed was convincing the public, to which he tried to contribute with the
following statement: "Everything that has contributed to the success of the
D-Mark will be kept, only the basis will be broader. The whole reason for
moving from the D-Mark to the Euro is that we want to secure everything the
D-Mark has done for us for the future".
The European spokesperson of the Social Democrats, Heidemarie
Wieczorek-Zeul, declared that her party will vote for the treaty since
measures against mass unemployment had been implemented into it. "For us it
is a major breakthrough that the fight against mass unemployment is written
down in the treaty. This is a signal for a new line of thought in Europe.
Just as we can secure peace only by collaboration, our economic future and
employment opportunities can be developed only by working together.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl will join the debate at a later stage.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-3>
<H1>
Trade unions and employers start mediation
</H1>
After the failure of collective bargaining for the Public Sector trade
unions and employers have now started mediation. During this period strikes
are illegal. Afterwards the negotiations have to be continued on the basis
of the verdict of the arbitration committee. The head of the trade union
OETV issued the following statement during an interview on breakfast TV of
a national television channel: "Obviously the mediators can try drawing the
positions nearer to each other, and it is their job to prepare a verdict
which is acceptable to both sides. This is a very difficult task, and I
hope that we succeed. I also hope that the employers will give up their
very hard stance trying take away from us very much and giving us nothing
in return, as this must never become an accepted culture of collective
bargaining and cannot be the result of collective bargaining in the public
sector. I think that our colleagues, who work round the clock for their
fellow citizens don't deserve this. If we do not reach a settlement after
the mediation, we'll have to think about strike ballots and strikes, and I
will watch the situation during the next three weeks carefully.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-4>
<H1>
Comparison of schooling costs
</H1>
According to the Federal Department of Statistics schooling costs on
average DM 8,100 per year and pupil, although there are large differences
depending on the type of school and the state. A pupil in primary school
costs DM 6,600 on average, in secondary school the sum increases to DM
9,400 - 10,000. By far the most expensive schools are the special needs
schools, where a place costs DM 19,900 per year.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-5>
<H1>
German Railways to compete with airlines
</H1>
The German Railways Corporation braces itself for some stiff competition
which passengers will enjoy. This morning the company introduced its new
special deals which are targeted against cheap domestic flights, a market
where the railway has had no chance to compete up to now. The new plans
include a limited number of very cheap tickets, and possibly last-minute
prices to decrease the market share of the airlines. The Corporation also
plans to introduce a mobility packet, where customers will be transported
from door to door instead of from station to station.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-6>
<H1>
Bundestag accepts SPD white paper to "Grand Bugging Attack"
</H1>
The ruling coalition of CDU and FDP has suffered a major defeat during the
ballot for the "Grand Bugging Attack". Some Liberal MPs, like Otto Graf
Lambsdorff, Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger
voted with the opposition. This meant that the Social Democrats won by 7
votes (329:322) with their compromise paper. As a consequence not only
clergy, defence lawyers, and MPs are exempt from surveillance attacks, but
this protection will be extended to all professional groups with have the
right to refuse testimony, i.e. lawyers, doctors, midwives, and
journalists. The Social Democrat MP Otto Schily commented that the
compromise paper was factually correct, as paragraph 53 of the criminal
justice law grants the right to refuse testimony and the Bundestag has not
considered it necessary to change this paragraph.
The conservative MP Heribert Blenz had tried in vain to take a stand
against the compromise. He stated that the conservatives opposed the
compromise as any legislation with that amount of exemption was completely
pointless.
The parliamentary party leader of the Green Party, Joschka Fischer, called
this defeat the "beginning of the end" of the ruling coalition.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-7>
<H1>
Catholic Church to continue pregnancy counselling
</H1>
The Catholic Church in Germany wants to continue counselling for unwanted
pregnancies. The Council of Bishops has instigated a committee which will
discuss options for counselling that will not end with the certificate
needed in Germany by pregnant women need to get an abortion.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-05-8>
<H1>
Storm over Germany
</H1>
The storm that is still raging over Germany has caused substantial damages.
Trees and fences were cracked, roofs blown off houses, and scaffolding fell
on roads. Insurance companies registered damages worth Millions of Marks.
The Meteorological Office predicts a slow decline of the storm with colder
and unsettled weather and temperatures reaching 6 to 11 degree Celsius.

