<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-1>
<H1>
Reactions to increase of pension contributions
</H1>
Pensions are secure. This is the constant claim of Federal Minister of
Employment, Norbert Bluem. Individual pension contributions are expected to
increase to 21 percent next year. This figure immediately provoked a fierce
debate. The opposition, employees and employers, unions, and even the FDP
itself believe that this situation cannot continue. The commotion is
completely understandable. At any rate, a personal contribution rate at 21
percent is an absolute record. Critics were not appeased by the coalition's
announcement yesterday about its plans to raise the sales tax in order to
lower the personal contribution rate in the future. In a conversation with
the radio talkshow B5-Aktuell, Ms. Babel, FDP sociological expert, demanded a
thorough analysis as to how Norbert Bluem's assessment could have been this
far off. Mr. Hundt, President of the Employer Association, referred to
Mr. Bluem's action as an attack on the viability of Germany as economic
location. In the face of this apparent vicious circle, many politicians feel
that the time has come to present their own models for care of the
elderly. The Minister Presidents of Saxony and Lower Saxony, Mr. Biedenkopf
(CDU) and Mr. Schroeder (SPD) respectively, are calling for more private
funding of personal care. The SPD politician can well imagine that this is a
step towards the government's gradual withdrawal from the pension system.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-2>
<H1>
New billion-mark deficits in Federal and State budgets
</H1>
The high level of unemployment, reduced tax revenues, and additional burden
from pension insurance have emptied the coffers of the Federal Government and
the Federal States. Last week, there was talk of losses between 15 and 16
billion marks. Today, it became clear by exactly how much the Federal
Government will be short next year. According to SPD and FDP estimates, the
Federal Government's budget deficit will be six to seven billion marks.  A
budget which Finance Minister Theo Waigel will have to balance next
year. Karl-Ludwig Thiele, Chairman of the Bonn Federal Budget Committee,
announced this sum in conjunction with his SPD colleague Helmut Wieczorek,
who heads the Committee. In view of expected tax revenues, Mr. Thiele
demanded a new savings program which would further restrict public spending
and encourage privatization efforts in Germany. The FDP politician stressed
in a newspaper interview that the problem is not too little budget revenue
but too many federal expenditures. The country should be able to make do with
800 billion marks a year. The Finance Minister of Bavaria, Erwin Huber, also
voiced his opinion.  He fears that the Federal Government and the Federal
States will be 10 billion marks in the red next year. The country's leading
economic institutes have estimated in their fall budget report that the
deficit in the public purse at 16 billion marks while other sources suggested
a deficit of 15 billion; in each case for the federal and state budgets
combined. The day of reckoning will be on November 11th when the Fiscal
Budget Committee will publish its estimate of tax revenue. Then one will know
the shortfall in revenue, and, consequently, the size of Bonn's budget
deficit.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-3>
<H1>
Henkel criticizes pension policy of the Federal Government
</H1>
President of the Federal Association of German Industry, Mr. Henkel,
criticized the Federal Government's pension policy. In a previously announced
interview with the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag", Henkel opined that the policy
had lead to a total disaster.  The Association's president accused Minister
of Employment Norbert Bluem of unsound policies.  Bluem's attempt to solve
the pension problem by raising the sales tax will have catastrophic
consequences, Henkel noted.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-4>
<H1>
The Greens discuss their election campaign platform
</H1>
With the election next year getting closer, it is high time to start forming
strategies. This is also the case for Alliance 90/The Greens. They want to
contribute to a change of power in Bonn. In Hanover, the Greens' National
Coalition is discussing the economic and employment portions of its
platform. The Bavarian Greens are are consulting with their members in a
meeting this weekend in Rosenheim. In her keynote speech, Ruth Paulig,
Chairman of the State Association of Greens in Bavaria, warned against smear
campaigns and witch hunts in the draft of the federal campaign platform. The
Greens should instead work toward abolition of the vehicle tax and a gradual
increase in the fuel tax, as well as demilitarization and a diminished role
of NATO. A party platform draft is not an official coalition document,
however.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-5>
<H1>
Lower Saxon's CDU convention
</H1>
After the SPD suffered a substantial defeat in the mayoral election in
Hamburg, CDU local chapters all over Germany find their chances for victory
quite good. The same can be said of Lower Saxony, where an election will be
held on March 1st, 1998. Christian Wulf, the top CDU candidate for Lower
Saxony, presented himself full of fighting spirit. The event culminated in a
standing ovation for Wulf.  In a speech, Christian Wulf leveled sharp
criticisms at the government of Minister President Gerhard Schroeder.
According to Mr. Wulf, Mr. Schroeder has run down the state, created the
highest level of unemployment, wreaked havoc on finances and placed internal
security in jeopardy. This is why Christian Wolf believes the time has come
for changes in the government. He wants to effect this change, he stressed,
on March 1st of next year. The party platform to be used for the election on
March 1st passed in Stade by a great majority. The battle against
unemployment is the prime concern. The CDU also puts a lot of stock in
economic growth and new technology. Members of the CDU hope to gain financial
leeway by selling off state-owned properties. The state would follow the
Bavarian model and place proceeds into a fund for future development. The
management structure should also be down-sized. A second area of
concentration is fighting crime. The CDU promises that penitentiaries would
have an increased capacity for prisoners, more expedient trials and the
consistent deportation of foreigners who commit crimes.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-6>
<H1>
Initiative against the spelling reform begins in Schleswig-Holstein.
</H1>
A petition for a referendum of the initiative "We are Against the Spelling
Reform" is now being circulated in Schleswig-Holstein. To have the right for
a referendum, opponents to the spelling reform must collect 106,000
signatures by April 30th of next year. Those who object to the reform want to
make the teaching of pre-reform German spelling rules obligatory in
Schleswig-Holstein. One of the proponents of discontinuation of the spelling
reform is, among others, Federal Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel. The FDP
politician told the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag" that it is absurd to
implement this plan against the majority of the population.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-01-7>
<H1>
High school graduates are inadequately prepared for the job market.
</H1>
According to a survey of approximately 800 companies conducted by the
Institute of the German Economy, companies generally feel that high school
graduates are inadequately prepared to meet the demands of the job market. In
particular, the firms criticize a lack of spelling and arithmetic skills.
They also noted that the general knowledge of students has declined.

