<DOC de-news-1998-11-12-1>
<H1>
Third day of discussion on executive statement
</H1>
On the third day of discussions about Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's
executive statement, controversies have erupted in the Bundestag in Bonn
over economic and domestic policies. Representatives of the CDU/CSU and
the FDP accused the SPD-Green coalition government of presenting misguided
proposals for key issues. The ministers of the respective departments
rejected these attacks. The Minister for Economics, Werner Mueller,
promised comprehensive cooperation with business associations. At the same
time, he defended the planned ecological tax. Mueller stressed that the
tax would not diminish the international competitiveness of German
companies. The main topic of the debate on domestic policy was the planned
reform of citizenship laws. The FDP distanced itself from the CDU and CSU,
its former coalition partners, and offered to cooperate with the Schroeder
government. Minister of the Interior, Otto Schily, defended the proposal
permitting dual citizenship and said that by so doing, Germany would show
itself to be a country open to the world.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-12-2>
<H1>
Hidden underemployment in Germany runs in the millions
</H1>
Seven million jobs are needed in Germany to achieve full employment, says
the Institute for Labor Market and Occupational Research (Institut fuer
Arbeitsmarkt und Berufsforschung). Scientists conducting research on
behalf of the Nuremberg Federal Institute (Nuernberger Bundesanstalt)
stressed that in addition to open unemployment, millions of people are
underemployed who do not appear in statistics.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-12-3>
<H1>
Lafontaine not optimistic about state of the budget
</H1>
Federal Finance Minister, Oskar Lafontaine, warned against being
optimistic about the state of the budget in view of the most recent
revenue projections. Lafontaine said that, compared to the former
government's proposed budget, he expects additional expenditures of 10
billion DM, that could climb to 20 billion in the middle-term. According
to the projections, tax revenues this year will be approximately 7.8
billion DM more than expected. For 1999, the estimate was corrected
downward by 1.4 billion DM, compared with the projections from May. At the
same time, Lafontaine rejected speculations today about a possible
transfer to the EU Commission in Brussels. He stated in Bonn that these
rumors were completely made up and that they were entirely baseless.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-12-4>
<H1>
Mueller: consensus discussion on energy to begin in January
</H1>
Discussions between the federal government and energy producers on the
plans to discontinue use of atomic energy are set to begin in January,
said Werner Mueller, Minister of Economics in a broadcast by "Phoenix"-TV.
He is confident that the negotiations will be a prime example of good
cooperation between politics and business. At the same time, Mueller
underscored that there would be no compensation payments for businesses
affected by the discontinuance of atomic energy.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-12-5>
<H1>
Regional Court in Dresden convicts former GDR judges
</H1>
The Regional Court in Dresden convicted four judges of the former GDR
(East Germany) of perversion of justice and false imprisonment and
sentenced them to probation ranging from 1 year to 22 months. The Court
found that the former judges passed disproportionately harsh sentences
during the 1980s on at least 8 people wanting to emigrate. Defense
attorneys had called for acquittal and prosecution attorneys had requested
probation of up to 2 years.

