<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-1>
<H1>
Parliamentary investigation on campaign contribution affair
</H1>
The Bundestag will launch an investigation into the campaign
contribution affair centered around former chancellor Kohl. This
afternoon, an investigative committee was set up that might
meet for its first session by mid-month. Billion DM deals, million
DM cuts, shady money bags, hidden accounts - the committee will
have to dig through a jungle of suspicious deals and heavy
accusations. The main question is whether decisions taken by the
Kohl government in relation to matters like juicy arms and airplane
deals or the privatization of East Germany's giant Leuna refinery
were rewarded with or advanced by way of bribe money. But before
the real investigative work begins, the members of parliament are
bickering over formalities. The Union parties and FDP want to enlarge
the scope of the investigations so they would also explicitly cover
SPD politicians. This is unnecessary, says the government coalition,
because the committee is already empowered to hear any and all
suspects.
Also, SPD and the Greens are against having more than eleven committee
members, as in their opinion the proceedings will be more efficient
with a smaller number of investigators. The opposition stands pat on
fifteen members, the minimum number they deem necessary for efficient
proceedings in view of the avalanche of questions. The matter may well
be brought before the constitutional court.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-2>
<H1>
Mediating committee discusses economy package
</H1>
Finance minister Eichel's was discussed by the Bundestag/Bundesrat
mediating committee today. Family subsidies, the so-called "tax
cleanup
law", and economy measures totalling some 4 billion DM were under
consideration. The main part of the package does not depend on the
Bundesrat's consent and is already in place. But Eichel is against
cuts even in the remaining issues of the package.
Finance minister Eichel went to the mediation proceedings with the
explicit aim of clearing this last barrier for his DM 30 billion
economy package without any loss. He appealed to the states not to
compensate the additional expenditures created by changes in the
subsidies for children, rents, and unemployment with lowering social
security rates of their employees or putting a lid on state civil
servants' wages.
Eichel did not mention the apparent intent of the government to boost
inheritance taxes which - according to well informed government
sources -
is thought to be the main point of chancellor Schroeder's expected
proposal in the matter of an increased asset taxation. The additional
income generated by this tax would go to state governments.
The mediation committee will not discuss the health legislation
reform.
The Union governed states unconditionally reject the package. The
parts
of the legislation that do not need Bundesrat consent will now be
formalized and will become law on Jan 1st, 2000.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-3>
<H1>
Bundestag debate on policy towards disabled citizens
</H1>
At the start of today's session, the Bundestag debated policy toward
disabled citizens. Minister for labor and social affairs Riester said
a prime aim was to avoid the necessity of nursing care and reintegrate
the disabled into an active life. He said, "Not only from a medical,
but also from a professional point of view there is no doubt that
rehabilitation must be initiated at the earliest possible stage. The
sooner effective rehabilitation is started, the better it works. This
brings me to a point that worries me considerably: the disproportional
growth of unemployment in the group of seriously disabled persons. In
October, some 190,000 seriously disabled persons were out of a job.
The
participation of the private sector in maintaining jobs for these
persons
is particularly unsatisfactory, having reached its lowest level in
many
years in 1997 with 3.4%. This makes solving the employment problems of
seriously disabled persons a prime political challenge."

<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-4>
<H1>
Siemens management happy with results
</H1>
Siemens chairman Heinrich von Pierer is happy: After a period of
radical
reengineering, the balance sheet for the past year shows record
numbers.
Von Pierer said the "war chest" was well stocked. The company plans
acquisitions in the areas of Internet, networking and services.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-5>
<H1>
Schneider will remain in jail over Christmas
</H1>
Former construction tycoon Juergen Schneider will have to spend
the Christmas season behind bars. According to the Frankfurt
prosecutors' office there are reasons to believe that Schneider
broke the tax laws during his open imprisonment period. Schneider (65)
had caused Germany's largest crash in the real estate sector,
causing losses to 50 banks and many professional firms.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-02-6>
<H1>
Dragnet against Hell's Angels
</H1>
Police and the judiciary of North Rhine-Westphalia started a giant
search operation against the "Hell's Angels" motor bike club.
The operation was initiated in view of warrants for the arrest of
10 of the club's members. Authorities talk of a blow against organized
crime. Some 900 police and special forces officers have been in action
as of 6 A.M. today. 46 locales were searched in several cities.

