<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-1>
<H1>
Train carrying nuclear waste arrives in Gorleben
</H1>
The transportation of nuclear waste to the intermediate
storage facility in Gorleben has been completed; the six CASTOR
containers, carried by rail, arrived in Gorleben during the afternoon,
accompanied by a heavy police presence. Around 10,000 opponents of
nuclear power attempted to halt the transportation again and again
with sit-down protests and other such tactics, but the massive numbers
of police managed to clear the way for the train on the last stage of
its journey, from the loading station at Dannenberg to Gorleben. Over
100 people were injured in incidents involving the protesters and
police and a spokesman for the police has said that around 200
protesters were arrested. Harms (sp?), a member of the state
parliament for the Greens, said that the number of police deployed was
excessive and that the events surrounding this transportation have
shown that a nuclear energy policy can only be implemented through
brutal police action. Kanther, the Federal Minister of the Interior,
claimed in a separate statement that "the left wing violent lunatic
fringe" was responsible for the escalation in the confrontation, and
in the same statement he defended the actions of the police, saying
the forces of the state cannot calm down a situation where people come
prepared for violence. The federal government has also defended the
transportation which started in southern Germany on Friday and carried
nuclear waste generated in part at the Bavarian nuclear power plant in
Gundremmingen, saying that it was an essential part of its disposal
policy. Hausmann, a spokesman for the government in Bonn, said that
the right to demonstrate had been misused by some of the protesters as
an excuse to commit crimes.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-2>
<H1>
Seven German tourists kidnapped in Yemen
</H1>
The Foreign Ministry in Bonn has confirmed that seven
German tourists have been kidnapped in Yemen, near the border to Oman.
The federal government has contacted the authorities in Yemen to
ensure that they are released quickly. According to reports which have
yet to be confirmed, the kidnappers have demanded a ransom of DM 12
million. According to the Foreign Ministry, the kidnappers were a
group of around 30 men, and the tourists were travelling on
motorbikes. In the last few months, several groups of foreign tourists
have been kidnapped in Yemen and the kidnappers have nearly always
demanded a ransom.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-3>
<H1>
Sentence pronounced in trial of border guards from former East Germany
</H1>
Almost 35 years after the death of the 17 year old Peter
Fechter at the Berlin Wall, the Regional Court in Berlin has sentenced
two border guards from the former East Germany to 20 and 21 months,
suspended in both cases, under youth sentencing laws. They had been
accused of joint and attempted manslaughter because they had shot at
Fechter who subsequently bled to death, as he tried to flee the
country across the German-German border in Berlin. The public
prosecutor had called for a suspended sentence of two years for each
defendant, the defence had called for a verdict of not guilty for one
defendant and a short suspended sentence for the other. The court
found both defendants (now aged 55 and 61) guilty of joint
manslaughter, and also of attempted manslaughter because of the shots
they fired at Fechter's friend. The two men had admitted shooting in
Fechter's direction but they had denied that they intended to kill
him; it was not possible during the trial to establish whether the
fatal bullet had been fired by one of the two defendants, or by a
third border guard, who has since died. During the trial, the judge
came to the conclusion that Fechter died due to a fatal wounding, not
because of denial of assistance. Fechter's death was seen as a symbol
of the inhumanity of the East German system because he lay seriously
injured in no-man's land for 50 minutes before anyone came to his aid.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-4>
<H1>
Decision on ownership of looted art in Moscow
</H1>
The upper chamber of the Russian parliament, the Council of
the Federation, has now also decided that art looted during the Second
World War is property of the state. The deputies of the Council gave
their unanimous assent to the decision of the Duma on this issue and
now only President Yeltsin can stop this bill becoming law. The German
federal government has registered its concern at the Council's
decision and has demanded that the items, which include valuable
collections of paintings and Priam's treasure, be returned. Yesterday,
the Russian government had criticised the bill, warning that it could
lead to problems in international relations. The Russian Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs has criticised the law, saying that it
would not be in Russia's national interest.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-5>
<H1>
Foreign Minister Kinkel visits the Middle East
</H1>
Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel has again defended the plan
to build a Jewish settlement in East Jerusalem, despite international
criticism. At a meeting with president Mubarak in Cairo, Netanyahu
emphasised the fact that, despite the plan, he intended to continue
with the Middle East peace process. The German Foreign Minister,
Kinkel, arrived in the Palestinian controlled autonomous area this
afternoon; in Jericho, he officially presented a market hall that had
been built with German finance. Erikat (sp?), the chief Palestine
negotiator in the peace process, thanked Kinkel for the engagement of
Germany. Kinkel had previously called on the Israeli government to
rethink its settlement policy, following talks with the Jordanian
government in Amman.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-6>
<H1>
Cabinet meeting in Bonn
</H1>
Despite the current financial problems, the Federal Government
still intends to abide with the strict criteria of monetary stability
required for European Monetary Union. This decision is recorded in the
third "Convergence Report" which Finance Minister Waigel presented to
the Cabinet today. Waigel again referred to the possibility of a
budgetary freeze this year, in order to fulfil the entrance criteria
for monetary union. Also today, the Cabinet approved the controversial
bill for a new postal law, according to which all postal services
would be open to free competition from 2003. The SPD has said that it
still intends to oppose the bill in the Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-7>
<H1>
Upturn in the economy is losing momentum
</H1>
The upturn in the German economy lost momentum in the
fourth quarter of 1996. According to the Federal Department of
Statistics in Wiesbaden, the  gross domestic product rose in this
period by 1.9 per cent in comparison with the previous year, but this
increase was less than that of the previous quarter (2.3 per cent).
The Department of Statistics announced that the rate of growth for the
whole of the year was on average 1.4 per cent. Rexrodt, the Federal
Minister of Economics, said that the stagnation in the last quarter by
no means implied a new economic weakness. Despite the growth in the
economy, the number in work in Germany dropped during 1996 by 491,000,
which is equivalent to a reduction of 1.4 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-8>
<H1>
Slump in building and construction industry
</H1>
A great slump in the building and construction industry in
January has led to a fall in total industrial production. According to
seasonally adjusted figures released by the Economics Ministry, work
carried out in the building and construction industry fell in
comparison to December by 25 per cent. Thanks to this, the total
industrial production in Germany fell by 1.7 per cent. The ministry
says that several unusual factors are responsible for the problems in
the building and construction industry (including the winter weather)
in addition to the generally bad economic situation in the industry.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-9>
<H1>
President Herzog calls for swift agreement on tax reform
</H1>
President Herzog has called for a swift agreement between the
ruling coalition and the SPD on the question of the tax reform. At a
meeting of the Working Group of Independent Businesses at Petersberg
near Bonn, Herzog said that a reduction in the burden of taxation is
absolutely necessary. He continued, saying that it might not be easy
to achieve this in times of budgetary pressure, but, he asked, when
would it be done, if not now? Herzog talked at some length of the future
of the welfare state and said that state funds for social security
should be concentrated on those who really need it. Demands must be
reduced in all areas because the state has reached its financial
limits.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-10>
<H1>
Towns, cities demand compensation for losses caused by coming tax reform
</H1>
German town and city councils have demanded
compensation for the financial losses they will suffer under the
planned tax reform. The Council of German Cities announced at a
meeting in Annaberg-Buchholz in Saxony that if no compensation is
received, the various services provided by the municipalities will not
be affordable. The Council suggested that one possible source of this
compensation could be to raise the percentage of income tax which goes
to municipalities. The loss of business capital tax could be
counteracted by allocating some of the revenues gained from Value
Added Tax to the municipalities.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-11>
<H1>
Unions will accept cuts in collective wage agreement
</H1>
Schulte, the leader of the DGB, has said that the unions
in Germany are prepared to allow cuts in collective wage agreements in
some cases, if this will protect workers from the possible closure of
the company they work for; also, he said, it was not contested that
wages could not be fully adjusted to take cuts in the working week
into account. The representatives of the individual unions had agreed
on these points at a meeting of the national committee.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-12>
<H1>
Talks between German and Austrian Chancellors
</H1>
Hausmann, the spokesman for the Federal Government has announced
that the German and Austrian Chancellors, Kohl and Klima (sp?), have
reached an agreement on many questions relating to European policy at
talks held in Bonn. Klima is to meet the Federal President today.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-13>
<H1>
Rexrodt present at opening of House of German Industry in Moscow
</H1>
Minister Rexrodt has called for better conditions for
investment by foreign companies at the opening of the House of German
Industry in Moscow. He criticised the Russian tax system and demanded
a simplification in the regulations regarding the acquisition of real
estate and clearer regulation for customs duty.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-14>
<H1>
Less and less German literature translated
</H1>
For years now, less and less German literature has been
translated. The percentage in parts of the world where English is
spoken is only one per cent and this percentage is declining. This
information derives from a parliamentary answer given by the federal
government to a question raised by Buendnis 90/the Greens. By
contrast, in Germany, every seventh book published is a translation,
mostly of books written in English.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-15>
<H1>
Dramatic rise in crimes rates in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
The number of crimes committed in Baden-Wuerttemberg has
risen dramatically in comparison with last year. According to figures
released by the minister for the Interior, Schaeuble, organised gangs
were responsible for around 3500 crimes which represents an increase
of 25 per cent. In 90 per cent of all crimes solved, the criminals had
international contacts. Schaeuble called for increased surveillance of
private property and for greater co-operation with the countries of
eastern and southern Europe.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-16>
<H1>
Germany to take back waste plastic from Beirut
</H1>
Beirut. Germany intends to take back the 680 tonnes of waste plastic
which were transported to Beirut illegally in August 1996. The German
Ambassador, Lerke (sp?),  said today in Beirut that the 36 containers,
carrying  waste, some of which is chemically contaminated, should be
taken back to Germany as soon as a suitable installation is found to
burn it. Three Lebanese citizens are currently being prosecuted for
the illegal importation of the waste.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-05-17>
<H1>
Football results
</H1>
In the quarter final of the European cup,
Schalke 04 beat FC Valencia by 2 goals to nil. In the quarter final of
the Champions League, Borussia Dortmund beat AJ Auxerre by 3 goals to
nil.

