<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-1>
<H1>
Johannes Rau to be new Federal President
</H1>
Johannes Rau has been elected as the new German Federal President. An
absolute majority of members of the Bundestag and the state Landtags
together must agree on the successful candidate, and the 68-year-old
Social Democrat achieved that, with 690 votes, in the second round of the
election. Dagmar Schipanski, the candidate put forward by the CDU/CSU,
received 572 votes; PDS candidate Uta Ranke-Heinemann, 62.
In his first short speech as German head of state, Rau said he would be a
president for all Germans, but also for all those living and working in
Germany without a German passport. He pointed out that the German
constitution, which was proclaimed 50 years ago today, guarantees
important basic values: the inviolability of human dignity, the equality
of opportunity for men and women, and the principle that private property
must also serve the common good. About the war in Kosovo, Rau said that it
was started because of human rights violations, and that he hoped that
diplomacy would end the war before he officially took office on July 1.
The caucus leader for the Greens, Kerstin Mueller, has said that Rau's
first speech showed that he would be a good president, a strong force for
integration. The Premier of Brandenburg, Manfred Stolpe, said there could
be no better representative for Eastern German interests, as Rau knew the
concerns of the people in Eastern Germany from his own personal
observation, and his intensive connections with the former East Germany at
the time had not been forgotten.
In the first round of today's voting, none of the candidates received the
necessary absolute majority of 670 votes. Rau had 657, Schipanski 588, and
Ranke-Heinemann 69. This was the first vote in the Reichstag Building in
Berlin, the new home of the Bundestag, and 1333 of the 1338 members of the
Federal Convention (Bundestag and state Landtags together) were present
for the vote. There were 17 abstentions and 2 spoiled ballots. Before the
second-round vote took place, FDP leader Wolfgang Gerhardt announced that
FDP representatives could vote according to their consciences rather than
the party line. That change benefited Rau.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-2>
<H1>
Yeltsin honours German-Russian relations
</H1>
Russian President Boris Yeltsin has honoured the relations between Germany
and Russia. On the 50th anniversary of the proclamation of the Basic Law
(German constitution), Yeltsin wrote to (out-going) German President Roman
Herzog and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder that relations between Russia and
Germany today were free of the burden of the past. Yeltsin said Germany
remained Russia's most important political and economic partner in Europe.
However, he added, the dramatic events in the Balkans showed that Europe
stood before a decisive step in peaceful development; the choice of which
path to follow from here would have a significant effect on the world
order for coming generations.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-3>
<H1>
Flooding in Bavaria, Switzerland, Austria continues
</H1>
More than 10,000 people have been directly affected by the flooding in
Bavaria. Nine rural counties and urban municipalities have been declared
disaster areas. Around 10,000 people have been rescued from their cut-off
homes. In the foothills of the Alps, the water is slowly receding. In
Neu-Ulm, the Danube and Iller Rivers have put streets and residential
areas under water. In Switzerland, the rain has stopped, but landslides
have blocked off many roads. In Austria, numerous highways in the states
of Vorarlberg and Tyrol are impassable. The water level in Lake Constance
has reached a new record of 5.63 metres, 2 metres above its normal level.
Ferries between Konstanz and Meersburg have been cancelled, shipping on
the Upper Rhine is also at a standstill.
Meteorologists are promising an end to the many days of rain in southern
Germany.
Meanwhile, the situation at higher elevations (the Oberland area of
Bavaria) has improved.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-4>
<H1>
NATO attacks on Kosovo
</H1>
Since the beginning of air attacks on Yugoslavia on March 24, NATO has
flown more than 25,000 sorties. That is according to NATO spokesman Jamie
Shea in Brussels. He also accused Serb soldiers of severely mistreating
Albanian Kosovar men. Shea based the accusation on reports by a group of
around 600 men who reached Albania on the weekend, claiming to have been
abducted from refugee convoys and held in camps for weeks.
This morning NATO aircraft shot at Serbian army units in Kosovo. Last
night, NATO bombed an electrical generating station in Yugoslavia, as well
as locations around Belgrade, in Kosovo, and Vojvodina, where a Hungarian
minority lives.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-5>
<H1>
Discussion of strength of Kosovo peace-keeping force
</H1>
NATO wants to significantly increase the strength of the planned Kosovo
peace-keeping force, in order that the displaced might return to their
homes before winter. British Foreign Minister Robin Cook said that, rather
than the 28,000 soldiers discussed so far, 40,000 to 50,000 were now being
considered. The force, according to NATO Supreme Commander, American
General Wesley Clark, would be there to guarantee the peace in Kosovo
after Belgrade agrees to a peace plan. However, combat engagements could
not be ruled out, he added.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-6>
<H1>
Sudetenland German association considers constitutional challenge
</H1>
An association of Sudetenland Germans is considering a constitutional
legal suit against the federal government. The announcement was made by a
spokesman for the association, Franz Neubauer, at the Pentecost meeting of
those Germans driven from their homes in what used to be the east of the
German Reich. Neubauer said that Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder had publicly
stated that he did not wish to pursue the claims of the Sudetenland
Germans, and that his organization would therefore look into the
possibility of a suit against Schroeder's government on the charge of
failing to provide them with diplomatic protection. Before an audience of
about 10,000 people, Bavaria's Social Minister Barbara Stamm called for an
end to the discrimination against millions of Germans driven from their
homes following World War II. Stamm also called upon the government of the
Czech Republic to rescind the Benes Decree, which declared the
displacement and dispossession of the Sudetenland Germans after the war to
be legally valid.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-7>
<H1>
Kosovo refugees in Bavaria, Saxony, and Thuringia no longer welcome
</H1>
Bavaria, Saxony, and Thuringia do not want to accept any more refugees
from Kosovo. The Internal Affairs Ministers of the three states have said,
after returning from a visit to Macedonia and Albania, that the refugees
must be accommodated in the countries neighbouring Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-23-8>
<H1>
Pentecost church services dominated by war in Kosovo
</H1>
The war in Kosovo dominated the church services for Pentecost today. The
chairman of the Catholic German Bishops' Conference, Bishop Karl Lehmann
of Mainz, said in his sermon that the Holy Ghost was needed all over the
world to bring the peace talks for Kosovo back on track. The chairman of
the Council of the Protestant Church in Germany, Manfred Kock, called for
an end to the violence in Yugoslavia, and a diplomatic solution to the
Kosovo conflict.

