<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-1>
<H1>
Employers' associations want lower costs for business
</H1>
Employers' associations want lower costs for business, or the target of
halving unemployment would not be reached, according to today's joint
press conference in Bonn. Now a thorough tax-reform and a change of
direction as far as additional labour-costs were concerned are called for.

<P>
Business and trade sectors agreed that the settling of Lower Saxony's
metal-workers' awards was not a blueprint, only a step on the way to lower
paid sick-leave for workers and employees. All options of the recent law (on
lowering paid sick-leave to 80% of the ordinary wage) should be explored and
used as much as possible. This cannot be done in one fell swoop, for all and
sundry and at the same time: "Companies should be flexible in localising
areas where costs could be cut". Compensating sick-days with over-time or
paid annual leave should be an acceptable alternative. They also had an axe
to grind with government: instead of cutting additional labour costs, the
latter had just raised contributions to the statutory pension scheme,
meaning "they had welshed on their promise to lower the tax- and statutory
contributions-burden for business, so far", according to Mr Stihl of the
employers federation. Mr Henkel, also of the employers' side, asked the SPD
not to keep blocking the planned scrapping of trade capital tax, or they
would be to blame for more job-losses, especially in former East Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-2>
<H1>
After the compromise on the annual tax law 1997
</H1>
Last night governing coalition partners and SPD agreed on a compromise.
Now the federal states will be compensated for the scrapping of tax on
privately-held assets, similar to what the SPD had demanded. Amongst other
taxes, estate-tax and tax on the acquisition of land will go up. The SPD,
however, is not happy with that.

<P>
Mr Scharping, head of the party, still has not given up on tax on privatelyheld assets, and they have got the tax on trade capital up their sleeve.
"We can just about manage to live with the mediation committee's compromise,
but we'll never agree to the scrapping of tax on privately-held assets.
If Bonn's governing parties want to bring out the champagne for the
well-heeled, that's their business - we're for lowering the burden of the
ordinary wage-earner." And they want to drive that point home by
asking for a vote by name, in parliament. The SPD will only agree to the
scrapping of tax on trade capital if tax on privately-held assets is
re-introduced at the same time. Even the coalition-partners think that
the law required to scrap tax on trade capital can not be passed this
year. Their deputy-leader asked government to apply to the EU-Commission
in Brussels, so there would be no need to introduce this tax in the new
federal states (former East Germany). And he asked the SPD to be flexible
in this matter, and give up "tying the scrapping of tax on trade capital
to keeping tax on privately-held assets, as that didn't make ecological
sense".

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-3>
<H1>
Genetic finger-printing and persons without fixed abode
</H1>
This morning parliament decided to what extent genetic finger-printing
may be used as evidence against offenders. It is only to be ordered by a
judge to determine an offender's identity, and that excludes any other
purpose. Another item on the agenda then was scrapped: for the record, the
debate on persons without fixed abode did not actually take place.
Mr Martin Berthold, head of the federal association for persons without
fixed abode, said that he was disappointed. Special meetings on tax matters
might be important, but doing away with a debate, would definitely reveal
how high or low this ranked in politicians' minds. There was talk of
setting up a special task-force at the Federal Department of Statistics
(Statistisches Bundesamt) to get official data on persons without fixed
abode. According to his association, close to 1 million people did not have a
fixed abode, amongst them 200,000 children. The numbers have risen some 20%
in former East Germany, compared to last year.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-4>
<H1>
EU: Restore democracy in Serbia
</H1>
The European Union wants to grant trade-preferences to what is left of
Yugoslavia only when democracy has been restored in Serbia. Today the
EU Foreign Ministers decided in Brussels not to grant preferential duty
rates to Belgrade for the time being. In a common declaration they also
condemned the annulment of local election results as well as the closure
of opposition radio and television stations. Today once again more than
25,000 students demonstrated against Premier Milosevic, asking for the
original election results to be respected.
The EU Foreign Ministers also prepared for the meeting of the European
Council in Dublin this Friday, and for the summit meeting within the next 10
days in Washington/USA.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-5>
<H1>
NATO-ambassadors agree on stabilisation force for Bosnia
</H1>
The sixteen NATO-ambassadors have agreed on a plan to deploy 30,000 soldiers
once the international peace corps currently in Bosnia has left. A
NATO-official in Brussels said that the foreign ministers would confirm
this when meeting next Tuesday. The planned 'stabilisation force'
is to take up duties in Bosnia as of 20 December, for 18 months.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-6>
<H1>
Settlement of metal-workers' awards raises hackles
</H1>
The settling of Lower Saxony's metal-workers' awards apparently raised some
employers' hackles. This Sunday there is to be a special meeting at the
employers federation' headquarters in Frankfurt/Main. Apparently Lower
Saxony negotiators had not heeded advice from head-office, and gone ahead
as they had seen fit.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-7>
<H1>
Foreign Office refutes claims of expellees
</H1>
Mr Erdmann, of the Foreign Office, said that in 1995 and 1996 there had been
several talks between minister Kinkel and Mr Neubauer of the expellees'
association. And there were plans for another meeting next week. Mr
Hausmann, spokes-person for the federal government, once again declined to be
drawn on the talks between Mr Kohl and the expellees, stating that both
sides had agreed on confidentiality.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-06-8>
<H1>
More foreigners assaulted in Brandenburg
</H1>
Once again foreigners were attacked and assaulted in the state of
Brandenburg. Yesterday several young persons at Fuerstenwalde assaulted a
man from Sierra Leone and another one from Vietnam, according to the
Frankfurt/Oder police. Both victims previously had applied for political
asylum. The man from Vietnam required medical attention. The offenders were
alleged to have abused their victims yelling: "Foreigners out". Police
arrested two young suspects.

