<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-1>
<H1>
Kohl addresses Human Rights issues in Indonesia/No meeting with Belo
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl has called upon Indonesia to respect the Human
Rights. During a public event in Indonesia's capital Jakarta Kohl said
political leaders are also judged by their ability to create social justice
while applying democratic principles. He advocated to discuss openly
differences in opinion about Human Rights. Respecting the universally
acknowledged Basic and Human Rights is of central importance, Kohl said.
One has to keep in view the welfare of humankind and discuss openly among
friends about differences in interpretation. In view of different cultures,
however, one has to respect each other and be ready to learn from each
other. 
<P>
Kohl stressed he had also addressed the Human Rights issue when he
talked to President Suharto. The President, however, did not mention the
issue at all at a dinner that evening. Instead, he thanked for the delivery
of 39 war ships from the GDR navy as they are very useful for the defence
of his country's territorial integrity. 
<P>
Early this morning, sources within
the German delegation initially confirmed that Kohl would meet Nobel Peace
Prize winner Bishop Belo from East-Timor, but later the meeting had been
cancelled. In the evening, Kohl expressed his regrets that the planned
meeting with Bishop Belo did not take place. 
<P>
Chancellor Kohl stressed later
in Jakarta that he had tried hard to arrange a meeting with the bishop. His
plan had been supported by the papal Nuncio, the bishop's order, and the
Cardinal of Jakarta. Belo had also been offered a plane for the trip to the
capital. The Bishop had declined Kohl's invitation because he was on a
confirmation trip within his diocese.

<P>
This morning 25 economic agreements have been signed in Jakarta. The
contracts between government agencies and companies are worth about DM1
billion. The contracts regard amongst others the ship , transportation,
steel, and natural gas industry. Earlier, Kohl and President Suharto had
discussed the economic relations between both countries.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-2>
<H1>
Tax quarrel within coalition continues
</H1>
Liberal Member of Parliament Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger expects
that the argument within the government coalition about the tax reform will
gain acuteness. So far there is no ready concept for the financing of
planned lower income tax rates, the former Federal Minister of Justice said
in a radio interview. After recent arguments within the coalition she was
not very optimistic about the upcoming deliberations about this part of the
tax reform. At the same time she criticized the tax discussion in her own
party. One could not demand the lowering of tax rates without presenting a
complete financing plan at the same time. Currently the FDP executive
deliberates budget and appropriation issues in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-3>
<H1>
Suessmuth supports retirement insurance for part-time workers
</H1>
Rita Suessmuth, Bundestag House Speaker, supports the introduction of a
pension insurance for part-time workers and the unemployed. In an interview
with the BILD-Zeitung, the chairwoman of the Christian Women's Union said
that in times of great changes in the working environment it was imperative
to keep workers from falling through cracks in the compulsory pension
system. Suessmuth suggested a possible solution of splitting up the 20
percent tax on minor jobs (those paying no more than 590 marks a month)
into a 10 percent tax and a 10 percent contribution to the federal pension
fund.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-4>
<H1>
Huber wants to cancel wage contracts in the public service sector
</H1>
Erwin Huber, Bavarian Minister of Finance, demands the cancellation of wage
contracts for public service employees to facilitate cuts in sick pay.
Writing to Federal Minister of the Interior Manfred Kanther and to the wage
commission of the federal states, Huber expressed his opinion that the
principle of equality would require this move. In addition, it would show
solidarity with employers in private businesses. Huber expects difficult
negotiations in the public service sector but said that a solution had to
be found that would be fair in the current situation.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-5>
<H1>
1996 budget unconstitutional; SPD demands declaration of insolvency
</H1>
Following a move by the SPD, the Bundestag will have a special meeting on
Wednesday in order to discuss the budget. The SPD demanded a government
declaration on "disturbance of the economic balance." According to the SPD,
only a parliamentary statement on the disturbance of the balance could
prevent the 1996 budget from being unconstitutional. In an interview with
Radio Fritz, Alfred Gaertler stated that the SPD is now fulfilling its
task, forcing the government to declare insolvency. He said that the ritual
is foreseeable: the chancellor would decline involvement and continue his
travels in Asia. The governing coalition would reject the statement that
the economic situation is off-balance and thus new debts will have to
exceed investments this year. Instead, FDP and CDU/CSU would criticize the
SPD for calling the special meeting.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-6>
<H1>
France and Germany to cooperate closer in environmental issues
</H1>
France and Germany want to intensify their bilateral co-operation in
environmental issues. In future they want to inform each other in the case
of a higher than usual ozone concentration. This was announced by the
Federal Ministry of the Environment after a meeting of Minister Angela
Merkel and her French counterpart Corinne Lepage in the European Culture
Park Bliesbruck-Reinheim in the State of Rhineland-Palatinate. The two
Ministers also called for changes of proposals by the European Commission
concerning limits for exhaust fumes and improvements to the quality of
petrol.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-7>
<H1>
Preparations for first regional bargaining round in metal sector
</H1>
Unions and employers in the metal industry in Baden-Wuerttemberg want to
reach a regional agreement on November 7 covering sick pay, the pay rise
for 1997 as well as leave and Christmas benefits. IG Metall union
representatives and employers in Freudenstadt said they want to reach a
pilot agreement for other bargaining districts on the first ever regional
bargaining round. Top-level talks for all districts in the metal sector had
failed.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-8>
<H1>
Wood varnish proceedings reopened
</H1>
At the Regional Court of the State of Hesse the so-called
Wood varnish proceedings have been reopened today. Two managers of
Duesseldorf-based chemical company Desowag (sp?) are charged for not having
stopped production and sale of a wood protection agent although they
allegedly knew about the high toxicity of some of the ingredients. The
proceedings had to be reopened after the Federal High Court quashed the
ruling at first instance. Three years ago, the two managers were sentenced
to two years imprisonment on probation and a fine of DM120,000. In the
original trial several dozen affected persons who had become seriously ill
were suing the company.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-9>
<H1>
Berlin and Brandenburg to co-operate more closely
</H1>
The States of Brandenburg and Berlin want to set course today for
their future fine-tuned co-operation. On the agenda of the two states'
joint planning conference are resolutions on the development programme of
the region. Since last year a treaty between the two States rules the
planning of the states. The treaty was originally thought to smoothen the
fusion of Berlin and Brandenburg, which failed in a referendum last May.
Government officials and several cabinet members from Berlin and Potsdam
took part in the conference.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-10>
<H1>
Heckert company of Chemnitz to be saved
</H1>
The federal government and the state government of Saxony want to save the
machine manufacturer Heckert. BVS -the successor to the Treuhand trust
agency which was established after German reunification to oversee the
privatization of former East German state enterprises- and Saxony have
indicated, however, that they will only help the company if the Deutsche
Bank is also involved. The bank has refused Heckert further credit after
the manufacturer's West German parent company, Traub, registered
receivership.

<P>
In Chemnitz today, staff demonstrated against the threatening bankruptcy of
the company. The workers' committee and the union IG Metall called for the
Heckert plant to be treated separately from the parent company.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-11>
<H1>
Public prosecutor moves against nuclear power plant
</H1>
The public prosecutor in Luebeck is proceeding against the management of
the nuclear power plant Kruemmel because of suspected faulty installations.
The move is in reaction to charges brought against the plant after a news
report on defects in the reactor building. Over the weekend, NDR radio
reported that management had fulfilled safety requirements only late or not
at all. The power plant is suspected of being the cause of the much higher
than usual occurrence of leukaemia in the Elbmarsch area. The plant is
presently not in operation.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-12>
<H1>
Another attack on foreigners in Brandenburg
</H1>
Two Frenchmen were beaten yesterday in Eisenhuettenstadt, in the federal
state of Brandenburg, continuing a series of attacks on foreigners in that
state. Last Thursday two British students were assaulted and injured by
unknown assailants in Oranienburg. While the perpetrators in that case are
still unknown, a 21-year-old man was identified in the Eisenhuettenstadt
case. He has been arrested. 
<P>
Brandenburg's Minister of Internal Affairs,
Ziel, has announced that the state will undertake preventative measures
against violent crime. The police have apparently been ordered to draw up
files on potentially violent youths in each police district. The SPD
minister warned, however, that a solution to the problem of violence could
not be expected from the police alone; society as a whole would have to
address the causes of such brutality.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-28-13>
<H1>
Students in Berlin blockade registrar's office
</H1>
Students began a blockade of the registrar's office at the Technical
University in Berlin this morning. They are protesting against the federal
government's education policies, as well as the newest cuts imposed by the
state legislature, which they say further restrict equality of access. They
referred especially to plans to introduce tuition payments of DM1,500
[rather than just the nominal administrative fee which students have paid
until now].

