<DOC de-news-1997-11-22-1>
<H1>
CSU party conference ends in Munich
</H1>
The sixty-first state party conference of the CSU closed this
afternoon with a guest address by Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Mr. Kohl
called the 1100 delegates present from the union parties to show
courage and determination in the upcoming federal elections in 1998.
The chancellor assured Bavarian prime minister Stoiber his
unrestricted support for the state parliamentary elections in
Bavaria. Federal Finance Minister Theo Waigel had previously been reelected into office as CSU chair for two more years. He received more
than eighty-five percent of the delegates' votes. That is about ten
percent less than 1995, making this year's outcome the worst in his
nine-year tenure as party chair.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-22-2>
<H1>
Kinkel calls for extension of SFOR mandate in Bosnia-Herzegovina
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel of the FDP supports an
extension of the mandate of the SFOR international peace troops in
Bosnia-Herzegovina. In an interview with the newspaper "Welt am
Sonntag," Mr. Kinkel explained that if the troops were called back
now, the region would likely regress into chaos and war. For these
reasons, Mr. Kinkel is in favor of an extension of the SFOR mission,
currently due to expire on June 30 of next year. He stressed that the
peace troops should remain under NATO command, and draw on European,
as well as Russian and American, soldiers. The NATO ministers of
defense are planning to decide on the succession mandate on December
2 in Brussels.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-22-3>
<H1>
Health insurance firms continue to investigate billing practices
</H1>
Health insurance companies are planning to extend their
investigations into inflated physician's bills. The chair of the
board of the federal association of trade insurance firms, Mr.
Kiefer, announced in the news magazine "Der Spiegel," that following
the investigation into cardiologists' billing practices, radiologists
and ophthalmologists were now being investigated, as well. Yesterday,
the insurance firms filed suit against ten of one hundred
cardiologist's offices surveyed, based on the suspicion of fraudulent
billing.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-22-4>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg to change its drug policy
</H1>
The conference of cities in Baden-Wuerttemberg has called
the governing parties CDU and FDP to change their course in drug
policy. The association of communal leaders supports a physiciancontrolled distribution of heroine to those with severe addictions.
Yesterday, the conference of health ministers in Saarbruecken also
voiced its support for such a program. The speaker of the conference
of cities, Mr. Stehle, suggested a model trial. The trail could be
conducted in the city of Karlsruhe, which has already volunteered to
serve as the site of the experiment. Until now, the majority of the
CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg has been opposed to a liberalization of the
state's drug policies.

