<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-1>
<H1>
Retail sector wage agreements in Bremen and Hesse
</H1>
Employers and unions have come to an agreement on new wage
contracts in Bremen and Hesse. In the new deal, employees will continue to
receive full pay even if sickness keeps them from working. Both sides also
agreed to a 1.85 percent wage hike. For the longer store hours which become
possible starting in November, employees will receive extra time off: 20
percent more than they put in during the extended hours. However, the first
Saturday of each month does not qualify for this bonus in Hesse; in Bremen,
two Saturdays each month are exempt. The two states thus follow the example
of the agreement reached in North-Rhine-Westfalia last week.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-2>
<H1>
Health Minister defends third stage of health reform
</H1>
Federal Health Minister Seehofer has defended the planned third stage
of health reform against criticism from insurance companies and unions. The
government's plans are a precedent-setting response to the challenges facing
state-approved health insurance, Seehofer said. He explained that it would
become more difficult for insurance companies to raise premiums because of
their own economic inefficiency. However, rates could be increased for the
sake of the advancement of medicine or because of the aging of the
population. The changes are expected to pass quickly through the Bundestag
and the Bundesrat, and to be in force early in 1997. According to Seehofer,
health insurance companies will largely be allowed to set their own rates. If
a company raises its premiums, however, the policy holders' percent excess
will automatically increase. The consumer would be permitted to change
insurance company on short notice in the event of rate hikes. The
state-approved insurance companies and the German Federation of Unions, on
the other hand, complained that the planned changes did not address the
causes of sky-rocketing health costs, but would effectively only shift the
burden to the consumers. They accused the government of losing sight of the
basic tenets of socially-viable health insurance.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-3>
<H1>
Federal government considers treatment of sex offenders
</H1>
After the sexual assault and murder of a seven-year-old girl, the
federal government is considering additional types of therapy for sex
offenders. Justice Minister Schmid-Jortzig said that a policy of bringing in
an external expert in cases of early release from prison was also worth
considering. On the whole, the minister defended Germany's justice system
against accusations that its treatment of sex offenders was too lax. Early
release is not the rule by any means, he said. He also indicated that
probationary release could be tied to certain conditions which could minimize
the likelihood of another offence, although, on principle, that possibility
could not be ruled out.
The justice minister of Baden-Wurttemberg, Goll, voiced his opposition to
"chemical castration", saying that the important thing was the psychological
counselling of offenders during their sentence.
More than 600 people took part in the funeral service for the seven-year-old
girl, named Natalie, in Epfach this afternoon. The service was broadcast
outside the church by speakers. The Archbishop of Augsburg, Schmidt, said
that this crime left everyone stunned.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-4>
<H1>
German Foreign Minister can visit China
</H1>
There are no further obstacles to German Foreign Minister Kinkel's
planned visit to China, the official Chinese news agency says. According to
the agency, the Chinese foreign minister, Chien, and Kinkel have agreed to
gloss over differences of opinion concerning human rights in their talks.
Kinkel's visit had been planned for June, but was cancelled after the
Bundestag criticized China's policies regarding Tibet. A visit to China by
German President Herzog was also thrown into doubt. The news agency now
reports that China welcomes Herzog and is looking forward to Kinkel's visit;
although the two countries still disagree on matters of human rights,
dialogue is more valuable than confrontation

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-5>
<H1>
Kinkel speaks to UN
</H1>
New York. Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel asked for a permanent seat for
Germany on the UN security council during his speech to the UN General
Assembly. He also announced a German military contribution to further
safeguarding the Bosnian peace process. The minister spoke out in favour of
extending the mandate in Bosnia, saying that the forces of peace were not yet
strong enough.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-6>
<H1>
Protests against cuts in sick pay
</H1>
The union for metal, engineering, and electronics will not accept
cuts to sick pay. Starting tomorrow, there will be protests in the work
place. In conjunction with other unions, the union is calling for action at
both state and federal levels. The chairman of the Baden-Wurttemberg branch
of the union, Zambelli, announced "strife at the work site", blaming
employers for this escalation because of breach of contract. He named the
Daimler-Benz company, which is going to reduce sick pay as of 1 October, as
the spearhead of the contract-breakers.
The factory committee at Daimler-Benz is calling for no more overtime or
extra shifts to be worked, in reaction to the cuts. In the Mercedes-Benz car
production plant in Sindelfingen, the factory committee terminated the
agreement governing extra shifts. Talks on savings in the company's truck
production plants were broken off. This evening there were already work
stoppages at Mercedes-Benz.
Daimler-Benz was the first company in its industry to announce that it would
be cutting sick pay as of 1 October. The designated company president, Hundt,
greeted the decision as precedent-setting. Since then, other companies have
made similar announcements - such as Siemens, BASF, and Hoechst. Volkswagen
and Preussag, on the other hand, are planning of maintaining full sick pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-7>
<H1>
Bundestag largely in agreement on shrinking
</H1>
The Bundestag is largely united in a plan to reduce the size of
Germany's parliament. A law on voting reforms was given first reading today.
It is expected to reduce the Bundestag from 672 to a maximum of 598
representatives, beginning the parliamentary term after the coming one.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-8>
<H1>
Interruption in Lubeck arson trial
</H1>
The trial in a case of arson at a refugee residence in Lubeck has
been interrupted after one of the plaintiffs fainted while giving testimony.
An argument between other plaintiffs and the family of the accused, Eid,
ensued. The court adjourned until next Monday.
Earlier, a motion by the defence, to cease proceedings, had been rejected.
The chief judge based that decision on procedural requirements which had not
been met. The lawyer of the accused had argued that the public prosecutor
could not prove Eid's guilt, and had referred to contradictions in the
testimony of the prosecution's main witness.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-25-9>
<H1>
Schuermann Building more expensive than planned
</H1>
The Schuermann Building in the government quarter of Bonn is now
expected to cost much more than the federal government had anticipated.
According to the German press agency Deutsche Pressenagentur, reports from
the Finance and the Building and Construction Ministries indicate that
renovating the severely water-damaged building will cost more than 760
million Marks. 370 million Marks have already been put into the building,
which the broadcaster Deutsche Welle is supposed to move into at the end of
1999, leading to a total cost of more than 1.1 billion Marks. The Bundestag's
budget committee had allotted 580 million Marks for the renovation project.

