<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-1>
<H1>
Demonstrations in Rostock
</H1>
Police have been able to prevent street battles between NPD adherents and
their opponents at demonstrations in Rostock. Hundreds of people
blocked protesters in the Dirkow district. Two to three thousand
right-wing radicals joined together in the district to take part in the
NPD march. Several thousand people gathered to protest against the NDP
in Rostock Lichtenhagen. Here in 1992, rightist extremists destroyed a
refugee home and burned a dormitory that housed Vietnamese citizens
seeking asylum in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-2>
<H1>
Rescue flights stopped
</H1>
The Sudanese government has refused to admit any additional
German rescue planes into famine-inflicted areas. Bundeswehr officers
waiting in the capital Karthoum were informed that, due to a celebration
and an official meeting, rescue planes would not be permitted entry into
the area before Monday. Two transport planes from the German Luftwaffe
and 52 Bundeswehr soldiers have been prepared to complete their mission
for a week in Sudan. Over 1.5 million people in the southern part of the
African nation are threatened by famine due to a civil war and a
drought.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-3>
<H1>
Germans taken into custody in Istanbul
</H1>
The Turkish police have taken three German citizens into
temporary custody. The three women took part in a "Saturday Mothers"
demonstration in Istanbul. The group gathers weekly to protest the
numerous disappearances of citizens in police custody. The mother of Eva
Juhnke of Hamburg was among those taken into custody. Eva Juhnke was
sentenced to a fifteen year prison sentence in Turkey. She was accused of
being a member of the PKK, the forbidden Kurdish labor party.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-4>
<H1>
Appeal hearing for Hamburg business man in Teheran
</H1>
The appeal hearing for Helmut Hofer, the Hamburg business man
accused by the Iranian government of having an affair with a Muslim
woman, has adjourned. In January, Mr. Hofer was condemned to death by
the court of final appeal. The appeal hearing continued for four hours
and was then adjourned until next Thursday. According to one of Mr.
Hofer's attorneys, there was not enough time to conclude the hearing
because it was conducted in two languages. The press was denied entry.
The Hamburg business man was arrested almost a year ago today at the
Teheran airport and sentenced to death in January. The reason given for
the sentence was that he was not a Muslim but had committed an illicit
sexual act with a Muslim woman. He denies this accusation and speaks only
of a kiss. In June, the supreme court suspended Mr. Hofer's execution and
ordered an appeal hearing. One fact is clear: Iranian law permits sexual
activity only among married people; all other intimate relations are
considered illicit sexual acts. If a Muslim woman and a non-Muslim man
commit such acts, the man faces a death sentence. Mr. Hofer's attorney
stated that he submitted documents proving that Hofer had become a
Muslim. If this were the case, he and the female Iranian student accused
of sexual activity would be given one hundred lashes with a whip.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-5>
<H1>
Accomplice of Osama Bin Laden Arrested
</H1>
The United States expressed its satisfaction that Bavarian
authorities were able to arrest an alleged accomplice of top terrorist
Osama Bin Laden. "This is an important arrest. We are very happy about
this," said an American spokesman. The CIA and the FBI are convinced that
the person in custody in Mamdu Mahmut Salim. A US government source
described Salim in today's "Washington Post" as the financial director of
Osama Bin Laden's worldwide terrorist network. In addition, Salim is
supposed to be active in buying weapons for Bin Laden. United States
authorities are now busy trying to speed up extradition of the 49 year old
as much as possible. It remains unclear whether the man in custody in
Bavaria took part in the bombings in East Africa. The American media
emphasized how the Bavarian police coordinated their efforts with the
CIA and the FBI. US authorities have had evidence for some time that a
leading member of the Bin Laden group wanted to come to Germany from the
Sudan.

<P>
Almost simultaneously, another man was arrested on Wednesday in Texas.
He is alleged to be Osama Bin Laden's personal secretary and is supposed
to have taken part in logistical preparations for the bombings in East
Africa.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-6>
<H1>
New problems with ICE high speed trains
</H1>
There are new technical problems with the ICE high speed
trains. German Rail has taken 4 of the ICE-2 type trains completely out of
service. A defective weld was discovered on the engine that could have
caused extensive damage. German Rail has inspected all 45 ICE-2 trains,
and the ICE-1 engines were carefully inspected as well.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-19-7>
<H1>
Mayer-Vorfelder might become full-time president of the Football League
</H1>
The finance minister of Baden-Wuertenberg, Mr. Mayer-Vorfelder,
did not rule out the possibility of becoming full-time President of the
German Football Association under certain conditions.  In an interview
with "Sudwestrundfunk," he said that the league's governing board is doing
whatever is necessary to make the league presidency a full-time position,
and that they have him in mind for the position. In the meantime, he was
re-elected as honorary chairman of the league's governing board for
another 3 years.

