<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-1>
<H1>
CDU and FDP edge away from Kohl
</H1>
CDU party leadership is increasilgnly moving away from former
chancellor
Kohl. He was put under pressure by leading Christian Democrats to help
the  party in laying open the campaign contribution affair. According
to the
Berlin branch of the party, the delegates to next Monday's CDU party
caucus
are to receive the latest information available on the investigations.
This may or may not include the low-down on whether the accounts
submitted were in fact incomplete. The prosecutors' office will decide
until the end of the week whether an indictment will be sought against
the
former chancellor. FDP general secretary Westerwelle said today that
Kohl had blemished his own name, the party, and politics in general.
The
daily "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" reports that CDU campaign contributions
may have been directed to numbered Swiss accounts. Tax consultant
Weyrauch, says the report, made many trips to Zurich on CDU business,
and there were distinct indications that sizable Union contributions
were
deposited to one or several accounts there.
The Kehl prosecutors' office a new complaint against Kohl and the
Slesvig-Holstein branch of the CDU had been received through an
anonymous fax message, accusing them of embezzlement and tax evasion.
The complaint is under investigation, said a spokesperson for the
office.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-2>
<H1>
Wulff demands further explanations from Kohl
</H1>
In the matter of the CDU campaign contributions affair, Lower
Saxonia's
CDU chairman Wulff was critical of the use of third party accounts by
former party chairman and chancellor Kohl. Talking to ARD radio/TV,
wulff
said that Kohl could not expect that the present party leadership
would
back him up. Kohl was under obligation to assist the party in
unravelling
the affair no matter what the consequences. The party was bound to
take
measures that would make a repeat performance impossible.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-3>
<H1>
Government believes new inheritance tax law will be approved
</H1>
The federal government are confident of obtaining a favorable
plurality in
the upper house (Bundesrat) for increasing inheritance taxes on real
estate.
This proposal is to be approved by the SPD convention starting in
Berlin tomorrow. The party presidency and directorate gave Schroeder's
plan their approval yesterday. The funds generated are destined to
fund government and social future investments. The Union parties are
already announcing that the necessary legislative adjustments wouldn't
get to first base in the Bundesrat. Says CDU faction vice-leader Merz:
"There will be no reconsideration on inheritance tax legislation, not
even
in the mediating committee."

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-4>
<H1>
Trittin proposes flexible plan for stepping out of nuclear energy
</H1>
Minister for ecology Trittin proposed a flexible shut-down plan for
nuclear
power plants to power providers. The plan would give power companies
the possibility of jockeying around established terminal periods, he
said
in an interview to the daily "Die Welt". If one plant were shut down
earlier,
the remainder of the terminal period might be added to another
plant's.
Power companies would be at liberty to decide on shutting down
unprofitable operations at an earlier date.VEBA, VIAG, and RWE power
providers denied today an alleged offer by power providers to shut
down
four low-profit plants. According to a report by "Berliner Zeitung",
the
powewr providers expected the government not to establish terminal
periods for the remainder of plants in return, settling on a global
quantity
of nuclear energy to be produced.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-5>
<H1>
Berlin SPD boss defends participation in grand coalition
</H1>
Strieder, bos of Berlin's SPD, came out in defense of the grand
coalition
worked out with the CDU, which is being criticized from within the
party.
Durnig a special state convention, Strieder said that the agreement
clearly showed a social democratic imprint. Even with  finance
senator Ms. Fugmann-Hesing`out of the government, the distrbution
of cabinet posts worked out presented a chance of influencing policies
that should not be talked to death.
The SPD will get 3 of 7 senators, the remainder, plus Diepgen as
"Regierender Buergermeister" ["reigning mayor", in fact state premier]
going to the CDU.
Strieder, presently senator for ecology, has his eye cast on the
future
planning senatorship, which will comprehend the former posts of
construction,
traffic, urban development and ecology.
Critics accuse Strieder of throwing the finance senator to the dogs to
further his personal power ambitions.
As the SPD, so the CDU will put the decision on coalition government
to the vote in a state convention tonight. Tomorrow, both parties will
nominate
their candidates for the senate [state cabinet], who are to be elected
on Thursday.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-6>
<H1>
Unemployed show more flexibility on job allocation
</H1>
Job-seeking unemployed seem to be increasingly accepting`handicaps.
According to a poll, 4 out of 5 would agree to a change in activity
area.
Longer access routes are also being accepted. These data are contained
in a report on "Unemployment 1999" published by the public opinion
research institute INFO in Berlin today.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-06-7>
<H1>
Increased profit sharing for DaimlerChrysler employees
</H1>
DaimlerChrysler employees in Germany will in the future get a
larger share of profits. The automaker announced that the variable
part of compensation will increase in Germany. If business is
successful, employee bonuses will increase.

