<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-1>
<H1>
Mr Kohl visits Mexico
</H1>
Germany and Mexico want to further extend their relations, following
Chancellor Kohl's trip to Mexico. No economic treaties were signed,
though Mexico told Mr Kohl that they would like a trade agreement with the
EU.

<P>
"We want to build a European house, not a fortress" was Mr Kohl's motto on
day two of his visit. And Mexico liked what they heard, as they used to think
that the EU's tariff-policy was meant to keep them out. Mexico expects
Mr Kohl to back their plans for a free trade agreement, something out of the
question at the moment, "as currently Europe has no shortage of agricultural
problems of their own". German investment prospects, however, look a bit more
promising. Managers travelling with Mr Kohl said that they intended to
invest another 3 billion marks in their Mexican subsidiaries until the end
of this century.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-2>
<H1>
Berlin and Hamburg to start re-patriation of Bosnian refugees
</H1>
Berlin and Hamburg will start re-patriating Bosnian refugees, by force if
need be, as early as 1 October. They will, however, try moral suasion first.
Though all state ministers for internal affairs had agreed on the measures,
it is up to them when and how they proceed. This also covers residents from
Bosnia-Herzegovina who entered Germany after the Dayton accords, who do not
have refugee-status.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-3>
<H1>
Mr Arafat visits Germany
</H1>
Today PLO-president Arafat continued visiting Germany, meeting Mr Bubis
of the German Jewish Federation, and business people.
According to the PLO's representatives in Bonn, Mr Arafat met Mr Bubis to
emphasise his country's desire for peace with all Jews. Business talks in
Frankfurt were meant to extend economic co-operation with Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-4>
<H1>
Ministry: secret-service staff member working with EU-observers in Bosnia
</H1>
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that a secret service
staff-member had been seconded to serve with the German EU-observers
in Bosnia-Herzegovina. This was in reaction to a television documentary
claiming the secret service member would use his observer-status for spying,
and had been involved in illegal arms-deals. The German Foreign Intelligence
Agency (BND) had strongly refuted the allegations.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-5>
<H1>
Mr Kinkel pleads for new ways of decision-making within the EU
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel asked for new ways of reaching agreement
within the EU, as far as foreign and security policies were concerned. When
delivering the closing speech at the 61st meeting of the German Bar
Association at Karlsruhe, he criticised the requirement of unanimous
decisions. There was no way the EU would survive in the 21st century if each
and every member-country could block the EU's actions by single-handedly
throwing a spanner in the works.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-6>
<H1>
Governing parties and SPD meet for talks
</H1>
SPD and governing coalition parties met for talks, or more precisely,
Finance Minister Waigel and Hamburg's mayor Voscherau met for a chat,
according to press agency dpa and the newspaper FRANKFURTER ZEITUNG.
Government coalition and SPD members of parliament think that Messrs Waigel
and Voscherau get on well. But they do have a lot on their plate: the SPD
wants tax-reforms within the next two years, and the FDP agrees, whereas
Mr Waigel does not want to hear about it before 1999. Main bone of
contention is the planned scrapping of estate- and asset-tax, meaning more
than 13 billion marks less tax for the states. Apparently there is some
leeway, though the SPD is adamant they want to raise child-benefits now (as
agreed on, yet postponed by government). As the SPD has a majority in the
Upper House (Bundesrat), they do have some clout.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-7>
<H1>
Bavaria's metal and electric industry wants to lower paid sick-leave
</H1>
The Bavarian federation of employers for the metal and electrical
industry was the first employers federation to tell their members to start
paying less for sick-leave. The cost-cutting laws, passed last week in
Bonn, should start biting soon, according to a spokes-person of the
federation. The unions said the employers were asking for trouble and had
broken awards.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-8>
<H1>
Award-row in retail-sector
</H1>
Today both sides met in Duesseldorf to discuss the award-row in the
North-Rhine/Westphalia retail sector, whereas more of the same took place at
Potsdam for the East German counterparts. The awards still have not been
settled, as employers do not want to pay penalty-rates for work after hours
and on Saturdays, according to a union spokes-person. Negotiations will
resume on 9 October.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-9>
<H1>
Government and SPD agree on new draft to reform health-system
</H1>
The major items do not require the Upper House's (Bundesrat) consent,
and may become law as early as January 1997. Keystone of the new
regulations: if any health insurer raises their subscriptions, they will, by
law, also have to raise all patients' excess (the amount they pay themselves
when they require treatment), by a fixed amount of marks. A patient then
would have to pay six or seven marks for a packet of tablets, on
prescription, instead of the current five marks. And the same would apply to
hospital costs, rehabilitation etc. There would be special exemptions for
cases of hardship and low-wage earners (less than 1600 marks/month gross).
If an insured person does not want to pay more, s/he may immediately resign
from the current insurer and choose a less expensive one (currently they
would have to wait for a year). The coalition is working on the assumption
that no health-insurer will raise subscriptions, as they do not want to lose
customers. And tooth-artwork, for example artificial teeth, would not be
covered by public health-insurers any more. Patients would pay up-front,
and get re-imbursed later (though not for the full amount). Special
exemptions, as mentioned above, would also apply.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-10>
<H1>
London does not want to keep slaughtering BSE-infected cows
</H1>
Britain will suspend slaughtering approx. 130,000 cows affected by
BSE. According to a three-line message from 10 Downing Street, obviously
drafted after hours, new scientific findings had to be taken into account,
viz: First, according to an Oxford University computer model, BSE in Britain
would have almost disappeared until 2001, and would have totally died
out until 2002. Second: the number of cows able to cross-infect calves was
lower than originally expected. The EU should look at these findings and
take them into account when setting up a revised slaughtering-plan for
Britain. This strategy has provided PM Major with a political breather.
At the end of October, parliament's summer-recess will finish, and
it is less than likely that the slaughtering-plans will attract any
ayes in parliament. Mr Major now has bought a bit of time.

<P>
Germany criticised Britain's idea not to go ahead with
slaughtering BSE-affected cows according to the EU's plans. Foreign Minister
Kinkel said they would have to stick to the plan agreed to at the last
EU-summit meeting in Florence/Italy. New measures were to be decided on
only after scientists had come to a conclusion on this matter. German
Federated Farmers were outraged: Britain was thumbing their nose at the
Florence resolutions for electoral purposes. The Consumers' Federation said
that Britain's behaviour was irresponsible. EU-Commissioner Fischler warned
Britain to comply - or there would be no loosening of the export-ban.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-11>
<H1>
International Children's Day
</H1>
Today is International Children's Day, and there was no
shortage of events to draw the public's attention to children's rights
and needs. According to UNICEF, more than 100 million children have to work
under conditions that are inhumane and detrimental to their health, about
2 million girls and boys have to work as prostitutes and close to 200,000
children had served in the armed forces fighting the wars of the 80s.
Germany's organisation pointed out that this country also had their share of
poor, viz. more than 2 million children living in poverty. Federal Family
Minister Nolte, CDU, advocated consistent prosecution of sexual child-abuse.

<P>
In Bonn several thousand children and young persons demonstrated for more
rights for them. Displaying a 1.5 kilometre-long poster featuring 34,000
children's faces, they tried to draw the viewers' attention to the fact,
that every day many children die through malnutrition and illness. The unions
want International Children's Day abolished: they criticised that politicians
take the chance to deliver speeches asking for more rights for children, while
at the same time
postponing raises in child-benefits and reducing the vote for education and
young persons to a degree never experienced before.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-12>
<H1>
Growing seller/buyer resistance against genetically-engineered soy-beans
</H1>
German food-retailers are increasingly against
genetically-engineered soy-beans from the US. According to Greenpeace, many
retailers do not want to stock them, for example Karstadt and Markant
(comprising affiliated COOP, Schlecker and Lidl chains). There were plans to
introduce the soy-beans this autumn. Soy-beans are rich in protein and
used in manufacturing chocolate, baby-food and nibbles.


<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-13>
<H1>
Day five of Graf tax-trial
</H1>
On Tuesday the first witnesses will take the stand at the Peter Graf
tax-trial. Today the court read from files compiled during the
investigations. Mr Graf's application to get released on bail will be
considered not before the beginning of next week.
Who knew what and when - the main issue on day five of the trial.
Many letters, contracts and memos were read, and their senders' names were
more than interesting: Federal Finance Agency, Federal Finance Ministry,
Federal Revenue Office Karlsruhe. Apparently the authorities even had copies
of the Graf-family's contracts with their letter-box company Sunpark, in the
Netherlands. And they knew what it was all about. According to a memo by
the Federal Finance Agency, the non-resident Dutch letter-box company
was merely rubber-stamping. In 1988 that same agency noted: "The revenue
office at Schwetzingen will have to decide about any German tax-liability."
According to today's hearings, Peter Graf had quite substantially leaned on
the authorities to avoid paying tax - whereas the latter had been well
informed and up with the play, for almost all of the last ten years.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-14>
<H1>
Police officers taken to court in Berlin
</H1>
Today eight police-officers are on trial at the Berlin Regional Court,
for allegedly causing bodily harm while on duty. The public prosecutor also
accused the seven male plus one female officers of illegally carrying arms.
The officers had been members of a Berlin-Kreuzberg squad, disbanded in the
meantime. An under-cover agent had testified that the police-officers had
hit and kicked young persons during a raid. The young persons had been
arrested for alleged aggravated trespassing and disturbing the peace.


<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-15>
<H1>
Big pile-up on autobahn near Leonberg fly-over
</H1>
This morning there was a severe traffic-accident on the
Karlsruhe - Stuttgart autobahn near the Leonberg fly-over. A petrol-tanker
crashed into a traffic-jam piling up three more trucks. The tanker's driver
suffered severe injuries. 1,110 litres of diesel leaked from the tanks. The
autobahn's Munich lanes had to closed for several hours, and traffic
had to make do with a single lane for some more hours. Traffic-jams
persisted all day.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-20-16>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
Fine and cloudy periods. Rain with temperatures ranging from 13
to 18 degrees Celsius in the afternoon, mainly in the southern half of
the country. The forecast: North and North-East: fine and dry weather; other
parts of the country: heavy cloud-cover and rain. Maximum temperatures up to
22 degrees Celsius.

