<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-1>
<H1>
New Year's Address by Chancellor
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl called on the German people to take an
optimistic view of the future. In the advance release of his New Year's
address, Kohl said economic statistics gave occasion for confidence:
Germany could count on economic growth between 2.5 and 3 percent. This
justifies hopes for a change in the direction of the job market. At the
same time, the Chancellor warned those responsible in politics,
industry,
and the unions that these chances could be lost. 1998 could represent a
departure or a decline for Germany, he emphasized. The world is
undergoing
dramatic changes. Only by unleashing the creative strengths of all will
the German economy be able to hold its own against international
competition. The future of the country will not be determined by
material
things alone, Kohl admonished. It is also a matter of mental attitude.
Prosperity and social security can only be maintained when each and
every
one feels a responsibility toward the whole. The unemployed and their
families mustn't be abandoned to their fates.
<P>
SPD Chairman Oskar Lafontaine called for a new culture of fellowship in
Germany for the new year. He spoke of the need to overcome stagnation,
suffering, and self-blockading.
<P>
State Premier Teufel of Baden-Wuerttemberg, in his New Year's address,
declared an economic strengthening of the state in the new year. The
growth of exports in Baden-Wuerttemberg may be in double digits, and the
number of orders is strongly increasing. Teufel pointed out however,
that
managing unemployment remains the largest problem.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-2>
<H1>
Seehofer continues to confront Stoiber
</H1>
Federal Minister of Health and CSU Vice-chair Seehofer isn't
giving way to Bavarian Premier Stoiber about the regionalization of
welfare budgets. Seehofer said in an interview that he does not regard
state-specific health insurance premiums and region-based claims as
feasible. This would cause a departure from the uniformity of the
standard
of living, as required by the constitution. Seehofer further declared
that
Bavarian requests could not always be implemented by Bonn in
"chemicallypure" form. The CSU politician described the bitterest cut
during the year
as being the desertion of certain party friends on many political
questions.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-3>
<H1>
EKD calls for fair campaigning
</H1>
The Lutheran Church in Germany called on politicians to run
fair
electoral campaigns in the coming year. EKD advisory chair Kock, in the
advance text of his New Year's address, said the citizenry doesn't
expect
total brotherhood, but rather mutual respect between the candidates.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-4>
<H1>
Bubis says politics responsible for society's attitude
</H1>
The Chairman of the Central Committee of Jews in Germany, Bubis, holds
the
state of politics partly responsible for the resigned attitude of
society.
The stagnation of politics inevitably carries over to society, said
Bubis
on German Radio Berlin. The citizenry hear every day from politicians
that
something must be changed, but they don't actually do anything. This
motionlessness and paralysis leads to a feeling by people that
everything
is bad, although individuals are not doing so badly.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-5>
<H1>
Junker expects 11 countries to join Euro in 1999
</H1>
Retiring EU-President Junker (of Luxembourg) expects to begin with 11
countries joining the Euro in January 1999. The definitive decision will
be taken in May with the test of the convergence criteria, Junker said
at
noon on German Radio. The important thing is that stability requirements
are met. He is convinced that Great Britain will be included in the
common
currency in the long run. He judges that the Euro will assist the
politics
of employment within the European Union. With respect to the planned
membership of Turkey in the EU, Junker emphasized that the Islamic
religion shouldn't be an obstacle. However, Turkey must respect the
rules
like any other country.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-6>
<H1>
Further conflict over future course of the FDP
</H1>
Further conflict exists in the FDP over its future course.
Bundestag
deputy and former Justice Minister Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger asked her
party to widen its focus on the issues. Among other things, the area of
"citizens rights" must continue to receive strong treatment. She
dismissed
criticism of her remarks by FDP General Secretary Westerwelle.
Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger along with Vice President of the Bundestag
Hirsch are members of the so-called Freiburg Circle. This left-liberal
wing of the FDP has recently criticized the party programs neglect of
such
liberal topics as rights and domestic politics.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-7>
<H1>
Teufel regards legal challenge of tax redistribution as possible
</H1>
State Premier Teufel of Baden-Wuerttemberg thinks a legal
challenge of the state tax redistribution system is possible, early in
the
coming year. In an interview with the newspaper "Stuttgarter Zeitung",
Teufel said a solution would first be sought in consultation with other
states. He remains skeptical however, of what the results may be.
Therefore, a complaint before the Federal Constitutional Court in the
second quarter of 1998 seems probable. Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg
in particular regard the present rules of the tax redistribution system
to be
unjust. Their criticism: that after the redistribution, rich states will
be left in a worse position than those financially weaker.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-8>
<H1>
Deutsche Telekom's monopoly ends with the year
</H1>
Deutsche Telekom wants to add a one-time service charge of 85 DM
to
the bills of customers already in the network who want to choose a
private
service provider. The leader of the new regulating commission for the
telecommunications market, Scheuerle, said on Bavarian radio that a
proposal by Deutsche Telekom to that effect has been presented to his
commission for approval. This does not affect the so-called "Call by
Call
Connection", which allows customers to select a provider by dialing a
code
number before each call. The telephone market in Germany will be
deregulated starting January 1st. Customers of Deutsche Telekom may then
change to other private service providers.
<P>
The private telephone provider "otelo" accused Deutsche Telekom of
misusing its monopoly. SPD politician Buri said that DT should compete
by
making attractive offers, rather than defensive restrictions.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-9>
<H1>
Daimler Benz plans medium-term investment in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
Daimler Benz wants to make a medium-term investment of 4.5
billion DM in Baden-Wuerttemberg. This was declared by chairman of the
board, Schremp, according to the newspaper "Stuttgarter Nachrichten."
Despite world-wide engagements, one wants to continue to place a strong
emphasis on the southwest. Schremp indicated a high possibility that the
luxury automobile "Maybach" will be built. He also expressed himself
positively to the board of Daimler Benz on the introduction of the Euro.
The single European currency will make more jobs possible. In sync with
the start of the European currency union on Jan 1, 1999, Daimler wants
to
introduce the Euro as its accounting currency.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-31-10>
<H1>
From the Editor
</H1>
The year 1997 takes its leave slowly but surely, and 1998 is already
sitting at the starting line. 1997 was not an easy year for the
hard-core
members of the GermNews editorial staff, but with some good will,
continued coverage was secured. Some of us have changed over to
professional life, and must sadly end our active role with GermNews;
others despite professional or study burdens, still have the time to
work
with GermNews.
<P>

As for myself, I accepted an offer of employment in the area of new
media
in January 1997. In October, some assignments from my employer brought
me
to Munich, at what would prove a very inconvenient time for GermNews.
Let
me at this point express my heartfelt thanks to Beate Herrman and
Albrecht
Bischoff, who provided me with considerable relief from October through
the beginning of December. During this time, both have proved reliable,
Beate as GermNews editor, and Albrecht as DE-NEWS coordinator. The
assignment as DE-NEWS coordinator during this time has been like a
baptism
of fire, as it was necessary to select and train new candidates for the
translations. A not insignificant part of the management of this
assignment was provided by the "old hands" among the translators. Above
all, GermNews and DE-NEWS are a team effort, a circumstance that should
never be ignored. 
<P>

I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all
contributors to GermNews and DE-NEWS for your faithfulness and hard
work;
together in the fourth year of GermNews you continued to bring the
project to success.
<P>

All readers, friends, and contributors at this point let me wish you a
Happy New Year - party on, good luck, and the very very best wishes for
1998.

