<DOC de-news-1999-12-13-1>
<H1>
Small CDU party conference in Berlin
</H1>
For the first time in many years Helmut Kohl was absent at a CDU party
conference. The financial scandal which Helmut Kohl brought upon his
party, played only a minor role at the party conference of the Christian
Democrats in Berlin. Party leader Schaeuble promised the party's base a
quick clearing up and defended his predecessor. "Those who know Helmut
Kohl also know that he did not feather his own nest. Helmut Kohl had his
wedding--which was some time ago, he married only once--but he did not
have it sponsored." Althoug involuntarily, Schaeuble used this statement
to change the topic to "Marriage and Family" which determined the party
conference. The delegates were in favor of the lead motion by the party
leadership for the future family politics. This included those passages
for which the CSU had earlier registered its objection. The CDU will
acknowledge non-traditional marriages in the future, even if the
partners are of the same sex. According to the CDU decision, values that
are fundamental to society could be found even in these relationships.
Legal obstacles for these marriages will be removed. However, marriage
will remain a special category for the CDU and as such something that
needs to be protected. Secretary-General Merkel: "Family is first and
foremost where permanent responsibility is taken on by parents for their
children and by children for their parents. The permanent marriage
provides the best foundation that father and mother will accept the
responsibility as partners for each other and for their children and
jointly contribute to providing the livelihood."

<DOC de-news-1999-12-13-2>
<H1>
Fight over NS indemnity amounts: Lawyers demand 11 billion DM
</H1>
The lawyers for NS slave labor workers demand 11 billion DM plus
administrative costs. Lawyer Witti from Munich said a corresponding
demand had been given to the US lead negotiator. US companies with
affiliated German companies that once employed slave laborers are said
to pay a share of 1 billion DM. The German side had offered 8 billion
DM up to now.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-13-3>
<H1>
Committee to shed light on flight scandal
</H1>
A parliamentary investigative committee will shed light on the scandal
involving flights by North-Rhine Westphalian cabinet members using
West-LB. This demand was made by the state parliamentary faction from
CDU, SPD, and Greens. Federal President Rau could possibly be summoned
as a witness. He is being charged with using West-LB at no charge for
campaign purposes.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-13-4>
<H1>
Prison sentences in juice adulteration trial
</H1>
The state court in Stuttgart issued prison sentences in the so-called
juice adulteration trial. The judges considered the statement of facts
on fraud and violation of the National Food Bill to be proven. Based on
the statement of facts, chemical apple base was produced and then sold
as natural apple juice concentrate. The managers of two supply companies
were sentenced to four years in prison.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-13-5>
<H1>
Biggest jackpot of the year
</H1>
The biggest lotto jackpot of the year to date has been won. Three
winners
will share a sum of almost 29 million DM: one from Baden-Wuerttemberg,
one from Lower Saxony, and one from Berlin. 7.1 million DM alone will go
to a person from North Baden who had gambled the sum of DM 10.50.
According to the organizers, an erupotion of joy should shake down the
area around Heidelberg at some time. But just like the other winners,
the
person is still not revealing himself. The winner from Lower Saxony was
the smartest: He marked the winning numbers on two tickets and will end
up winning twice.

