<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-1>
<H1>
EU Summit in Dublin
</H1>
The heads of state and the heads of government of the European Union
members have been meeting in Dublin for a special summit.  They are
meeting in the Irish capital in order to strike the preliminary
balance of the on-going EU-Reform conference and to determine other
points of emphasis.  Under discussion is a confirmation of the
timetable and the degree of involvement of the member states.
As many obstacles as possible are to be eliminated.  That was the
guideline offered by the host, the Irish Prime Minister at the
opening of the informal negotiations of heads of state and
governments.  The timetable should be adhered to; by June of next
year, a new course is to be charted to make the European Union more
efficient, closer to the wishes of people and, at the same time, more
competent in foreign affairs.  Speculations are circulating about a
reduced reform package "Maastricht II" with later emendations in a
"Maastricht III"-Treaty.
To be sure, looking in from the outside, the operative plan in Dublin
is to implement the most far-reaching changes possible as quickly as
possible.  It is not the least of their goals to prepare the 15
member Union for expanding its membership eastward.  Concrete
decisions on questions of voting procedures in the Council of
Ministers or in regard to formulating a common foreign policy are not
to be expected from the Saturday meeting.  Two days before the
convention of Britain's Conservative Party, Prime Minister John Major
would hardly want to give up his country's  traditional role of
acting as a brake mechanism during negotiations.
All the more, Mideastern politics take on center stage during debate.
Obviously, sending three messages, one to Palestine, one to
Israel and one to Washington and/or sending EU representatives to
the actual negotiations is under consideration.  Especially, the
Italians and French are urging that the EU take a more active role in
the Middle Eastern peace process.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-2>
<H1>
Arafat Wants Europe's Participation in Mideast Peace Process
</H1>
Palestinian President Arafat has called for European participation in
the renewed peace talks  with Israel planned for Sunday.  Peace in
the Middle East is as important for the world as it is for
Palestinians and Israelis, said Arafat after a meeting with French
President Chirac in Paris.  He also requested that Mr. Chirac present
his ideas to the summit of the EU in Dublin.  During a telephone
conversation with Israeli President Netanyahu, Mr. Chirac called for
concrete gestures toward the Palestinians.  He stated that no more
time should be lost.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-3>
<H1>
Employers and Unions To Discuss Cuts in Sick Pay
</H1>
Top representatives of the metal industry want to meet to discuss the
disagreement about sick pay.  A discussion is set for next  Monday.
This was reported today by the metal workers' union and the metal
employers' alliance.
There has been violent disagreement about cutting sick pay.
Employers and workers now want to negotiate to see if they can reach
a peaceful settlement in the conflict caused by the law approved by
the parliament.  The summit is to be attended by Metal Employers'
President Werner Stumpfe and his deputy, Mr. Dieter
Hund and, for the metal workers' union, its head, Mr. Klaus Zwickel
and his vice chairman, Mr. Walter Riester.  The parties want to
confer about  procedures and, if possible, find ways to avoid having
the troubled autumn announced by the union.  Since October 1, the
controversial Bonn law has provided for the cutting of sick pay.
When they are ill, workers will be paid only 80% of their wages.  The
first to implement the new provision was Daimler-Benz, which began
its cuts punctually on October 1; other businesses planned to follow
its lead.  To express their protest 150 000 metal workers  in the old
federal states had stopped working last Tuesday.  According to the
Hamburg news magazine DER SPIEGEL, Metal employers' head, Mr.
Stumpfe, is to seek possible compromise with the unions.
Additionally, the executive board of the employer's alliance has
given him until next Thursday to come up with a solution.  Especially
Daimler-Benz, DER SPIEGEL reports, had complained of being helplessly
at the mercy of the union and had finally urged that an agreement be
reached with the union.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-4>
<H1>
Suggestions for the Reform of Civil Servants' Pensions Criticized
</H1>
In the view of several SPD governed states,  Federal Minister of the
Interior Kanther's suggestions concerning reform of pensions for
civil servants are not far-reaching enough.  Head of the Rhineland-
Palatinate government, Mr. Beck,  has already demanded a structural
reform of the entire public service.  He said that the report offered
by Mr. Kanther did not reveal a conclusive concept.  Minister
President Eichel of Hessia said that civil servants should be treated
like every other worker and employee in the matter of health
insurance.  Saxony- Anhalt and Schleswig-Holstein were also critical
of the suggestions.  Among others, there would be a provision that
the 2 million officials receive 0.2% less annual pay than public
service employees commencing in the year 2001 and continuing for a
total of 14 years.  The savings would be used as pension reserves.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-5>
<H1>
Teufel and Beck on New Southwestern Local Broadcasting Arrangements
</H1>
 Before their meeting on Wednesday, Minister
President Teufel and Minister President Beck of Rhineland-Palatinate
have stated their views concerning the new Southwesterm local
broadcasting arrangements.  CDU politician Teufel said during an
interview broadcast in the SDR 1 program "Chronicle of Baden-
Wuerttemberg," that he would favor two strong state stations but,
especially, one state station Baden-Wuerttemberg which should be
housed
with Rhineland-Palatinate.  During an interview by the STUTTGARTER
ZEITUNG, the minister president of Rhineland-Palatinate, Mr.  Beck,
SPD, also advocated a fusion of SDR and SWF.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-6>
<H1>
Aftermath of the Deadly Shots Fired in Nuernberg
</H1>
A day after she fired on an unarmed Greek, the policewoman from
Nuernberg is still not ready for questioning.  The police said that
the 20 year old woman was in shock, so a legal assessment of the
incident was not as yet possible.  Still, there was news.  There was
a surprise at the press conference held by the Nuernberg police:
during the autopsy of the Greek man who was shot yesterday, it turned
out, that he was the 26 year old younger brother of the man the
police thought it was confronting.  He obviously believed that his
brother had valid papers and therefore gave his brother's
particulars.  But the brother was also on the search list and
therefore his attempt at deception failed.  The man who was killed
was also known to the Nuernberg police as a consumer of hard drugs
although he had no drugs with him when the shot that killed him was
fired.  As far as can be determined to this point in time, he had not
threatened the two policewomen on patrol.  And he was not armed.  Why
the 20 years young, fully trained policewoman shot him is difficult
to explain.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-05-7>
<H1>
Church Asylum Ended - Kurdish Family Flies Back to Turkey
</H1>
After 19 months, the probably most publicized case of church asylum
in Bavaria has come to an end.  Surprisingly, the Kurdish Demerkeran
family flew back from Nuernberg to Turkey on Saturday.  According to
the Bavarian Ministry of the Interior, their departure was voluntary.
According to the support group's reports, the renewed threat of
arrest drove the family to take this step. The Kurd, who was not
recognized as a political refugee had fought for two years for the
granting of asylum in Germany.  Since March 1995, he, his wife and
his three children, aged 10, 16 and 17 had lived with almost no
interruption under the protection of the Hoechstadt church
congregation.  The 39 year old man was arrested in mid-September.  He
had been released after promising that he would leave Germany
voluntarily by September 30.  An emergency petition made by his
attorney for postponement of departure had not been considered by the
administrative court of Ansbach.  The judges wanted to decide on the
appeal only after the man was arrested again. The attorney had based
her petition on the Kurd's urgent need for treatment.  She stated
that Mr. Demerkeran was suffering from a severe psychic illness
because of the torture he had suffered.  The Munich based Center for
Victims of Torture, Refugio, had pleaded that Mr. Demerkeran be
allowed to stay.

