<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-1>
<H1>
Tax reform commission meets again in Bonn
</H1>
The plans of the federal government to tax pensions and life insurance
at a higher rate have met with strong criticism. The council of the insurance
industry declared that taxation of life insurance would endanger private retirement planning. The federation of tax payers pointed out that pension taxation
could only affect those who are in their 30s today, and therefore cannot be
applied to the financing of the thoroughgoing tax reform.
In the face of this criticism the tax reform commission came to their apparent
last meeting. The table of politicians and experts advised, among other matters,
on the new rates of income tax.
The highest tax rate under 40%, the introductory rate under 20%, with this goal
the coalition's tax reformers went into the decisive round of negotiations.
There is to be a net savings of the citizens' tax burden by the reduction of
the tax rates of nearly 30 billion marks. The second question to be resolved
today was to be: will a linear-progressive tax rate remain in the future, or
will a simple step system be introduced, as the liberals advocate.
The FDP-faction chief stated in support of the stepwise system that it is more
transparent, more understandable and offers more options to work with a less
oppresive "ground floor" tax rate. He also observed that all major European
nations have a step system. Finance minister Waigel said that both systems have
advantages and disadvantages, and that it was not a matter of dogma, rather that
experts needed to work together to resolve the issue.
It is still as unclear as ever whether the value-added tax will have to be
raised in order to pay for the tax reform. Waigel excluded the possibility of
additional income for financing the pension reform coming from a higher VAT.
Waigel accepts the proposition that the social security system must be reformed
from the ground up, and made fiscally feasible. The reshuffling of taxes within
a social system, or the converse, will not resolve any question of tax
proportionality and the long-term reformability and ability to be financed. The
commission is to reach a decision by the middle of next week on the total tax
reform package.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-2>
<H1>
Still no fresh trail for the accused murderers of Kim
</H1>
There is still no great advance in the search for the murderers of
the ten year old Kim Kerkow. The black BMW, seen several times last night,
that the alleged criminals are said to have escaped in, has not yet
reappeared despite a newly introduced wide search. The ten year old girl
was abducted last week in Varel, in Lower Saxony. On Friday she was found
murdered in Amsterdam. No more has become clear in the meantime about the
two men in the BMW that is the object of the search, and whether they had
been on the A1 near Wildeshausen. There are reports of a W in the license
number, according to a police spokesman. There is also no definitive word
on the make of the car. Nonetheless, the commission on Kim's death is
proceeding on the assumption that both suspects are still in the metallic
black BMW. The manhunt in the region around the A1 has intensified.  The
police are located on Autobahn viaducts, keeping watch for the sport coupe
with the official designation WW-ES 66. No trace was found of the car
tonight.  The Police are mystified as to how the BMW, object of the
search, has still not been found. It might finally be due to the
flashiness of the car.  In the meantime there is speculation on the
murderer, or murderers. A police psychologist from Lower Saxony said in a
newspaper interview that the abduction of the ten year old might have been
a case of a professional contract kidnapping for a child pornography ring.
It was no case of impulsive criminals; young girls are popular objects of
trade, the psychologist said in the interview.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-3>
<H1>
Airbus consortium to incorporate
</H1>
Federal economic minister Rexrodt exhorted the partners in Airbus to
keep to the appointed plan for restructuring the organization into a
private corpor- ation, or else competitive preparedness will be
sacrificed. None of the four partner concerns will be able to avoid
bringing their production locations into the new corporation, Rexrodt
said.  Airbus decided today to transform the consortium into a private
corporation to be more competitive in the aircraft industry, especially
with industry leader Boeing.  The Airbus consortium is to become a limited
liability company (GmbH) by 1999, reads the agreement that all four
partners signed. The private Airbus company should then be in a position
to more easily make decisions. Only advertisment, sales and customer
service have so far been centralized at Airbus.  Conversely, all business
decisions had to be worked out separately by each partner, and then
unanimously agreed to. This made the consortium unmanageable, a grave
disadvantage in competition with market leader Boeing. Future decisions on
development, testing and production of Airbus aircraft will be made by the
company's directors. One of the most pressing issues in Airbus' plans is
the construction of a large airplane, to compete with Boeing's Jumbo Jet
747.  Long-term negotiations led to today's basic agreement on Airbus'
incorporation. To this point, both the German DASA and the French
Aerospaciale each own 37.9% of Airbus, British Airspace 20% and the
Spanish corporation CASA 4.2%. The next months may well bring difficult
talks on matters of personnel and locations for the future Airbus
corporation.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-4>
<H1>
Grundig finance boss leaving
</H1>
Embattled electronics giant Grundig is looking for a new finance
executive. A spokesman for the company announced today in Fuerth that
finance officer Karl-Heinz Wieland has decided to quit his position. The
IG Metall union, on the other hand, maintains that Wieland is being
relieved of office, and that the background of the situation is that the
Dutch former parent company, Philips, now wants Grundig, as competition,
out of the market.
It has been learned, meanwhile, that the German company will not be able
to avoid mass lay-offs this year.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-5>
<H1>
Testimony begins in trial over the death of 2-year-old Jenny
</H1>
Two men and two women are in court starting today in connection
with the death of a 2-year-old girl named Jenny. The lead defendant
testified this afternoon. He is facing manslaughter charges, accused of
having abused the child so badly that she died. The 26-year-old said that
he was sorry; if he could, he would take back every blow and every shout.
At that time, January 1996, the 2-year-old was spending three weeks with
him, her father, and his girlfriend. According to the man's own testimony,
the child repeatedly annoyed him so much that he pulled her ears and
pinched her cheeks until they bled. His girlfriend, who - in addition to
Jenny's mother and her boyfriend - is being charged as an accomplice, had
offered to take the girl into her care, but told the court today that
there came a point at which she could no longer deal with the situation.
In March, Jenny again spent some time with the couple; the father
evidently went berserk and shook the child until she lost consciousness.
Two days later she died of a cerebral haemorrhage.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-6>
<H1>
Geissler calls for Rexrodt's resignation
</H1>
Federal Economic Minister Rexrodt should resign, according to CDU
member Geissler. The reason for this demand is a statement Rexrodt made
about employment termination notice.
Rexrodt said last week that it was much too difficult to lay people off in
Germany. The vice-chairman of the CDU parliamentary group said that the
FDP minister would have to either correct his remarks, or resign. Speaking
to NDR radio, Geissler said that the minister's comments were
"unbelievable".

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-7>
<H1>
Fire disaster due to clothes drying
</H1>
Pieces of clothing drying on an oven were the cause of a
terrible fire in a refugee residence which killed 3 children on Friday.
The clothing apparently covered up the air vents on the over, so that heat
built up and the fabric caught fire. 42 refugees from the former
Yugoslavia lived in the temporary building in Mohnheim on the Rhine. The
parents of the 3 children were injured in the fire.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-8>
<H1>
Tenants' board expects 20 percent higher heating costs
</H1>
The German tenants' board expects heating costs to be 20
percent higher this winter. Renters should prepare themselves for the
expense, the board advises. It indicates, however, that the higher bills
for this season's heating should not come until September or October.
Because of the unusually cold winter and the strength of the American
dollar, the board says that heating oil will likely remain expensive for
quite a while.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-9>
<H1>
Rhineland-Palatinate budget law unconstitutional
</H1>
The Higher Administrative Court for Rhineland-Palatinate has
found the state law governing the redistribution of income between the
counties to be unconstitutional. Now the Constitutional Court of
Rhineland-Palatinate has to examine the law. The administrative judges in
Koblenz are of the opinion that the law as it stands does not lead to an
equitable redistribution of monies between rich and poor counties; rather,
they feel that the complicated system of calculations involved achieves
the opposite.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-10>
<H1>
House searches in pace-maker scandal
</H1>
The public prosecutor's office has searched through clinics and
doctors' homes in several federal states. Investigators are accusing
medical professionals and clinic managers of inflating the price of
pace-makers and profiting from their sale.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-11>
<H1>
National Union of Employees to strike at Lufthansa?
</H1>
The Nation Union of Employees wants to hit Lufthansa with a
strike. Its members have been called to vote on the matter.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-12>
<H1>
Visa for children coming from certain countries; starts Wednesday
</H1>
Children from Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and the former Yugoslavia
will need a visa if they want to enter Germany starting Wednesday. The
federal government has issued this order in order to, as it says, put a
stop to the abuse of free entry.
The SPD and Alliance 90/the Greens reject the decision, especially as it
is being put on the legal fast track and will come into force the day
after tomorrow. Speaking for the Greens, Cem Oezdemir said that the new
requirement will complicate visits from parents and relatives with
bureaucracy.
The government official in charge of matters pertaining to foreigners in
Germany, Schmalz-Jacobsen, finds it especially disturbing that such
developments might mean that in the future even children born and raised
in Germany (of non-German parents) might require a residency visa.
SPD internal affairs critic Sonntag-Wolgast considers the decision
inimical to the integration of non-German residents.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-13>
<H1>
Electric companies want permit for a new generation of nuclear reactors
</H1>
According to government sources, the German electric companies want
to apply for a permit for a new generation of nuclear reactors by the year
2000. The economic ministry indicated that industry spokesmen had agreed
to make available 150 million marks for the further development of a new
type of reactor and for the permit process.
After a conversation with representatives from the energy sector, Economic
Minister Rexrodt and Environment Minister Merkel stated that atomic energy
would continue to make an important contribution to Germany's energy
supply in the future.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-13-14>
<H1>
Tennis: Boris Becker out in the first round in Melbourne
</H1>
Defending title-holder Boris Becker has been knocked out of
the Australian Open in the first round. He was beaten by Spaniard Carlos
Moya in five sets - (Becker:Moya) 7:5, 6:7, 6:3, 1:6, and 4:6.

