<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-1>
<H1>
Speculation about SPD parliamentary party head Struck
</H1>
The federal board of the SPD has denied a press report that the leader of
the parliamentary party, Peter Struck, will be replaced. A spokesman for
the SPD press agency stated that the party heads were unaware of any such
speculations. The "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" reported that the SPD federal
parliamentary party wants to replace Struck with the Minister of
Transportation, Franz Muentefering, on account of Struck's comments on SPD
tax policies. The SPD feels that his comments could be damaging in the
upcoming elections for state parliaments. In the meantime, Muentefering
has demanded an end to the internal debates about the direction the party
is party is taking.  He also rejected speculations that he would switch
positions with Struck and said there will be no changes in the present
course.

<P>
Meanwhile, Reinhard Klimmt, the Minister President of Saarland, reiterated
his criticism of the German government's savings plan as well as of
Struck's tax suggestions at a special state party convention in
Saarbrucken. Ottmar Schreiner, the executive director of the federal SPD,
also criticized the neoliberal path the party has been taking at the same
convention.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-2>
<H1>
Death of Ignatz Bubis
</H1>
Leading German representatives from politics and churches honored Ignatz
Bubis, the late Chairman of the Central Jewish Committee. They were
unanimous in their opinion that Bubis made a lasting contribution to the
reconciliation between Jews and non-Jews in Germany. The Central Muslim
Committee in Germany praised Bubis' commitment against racism and for a
multicultural society. Federal President Johannes Rau praised him as a man
of reconciliation and balance who continued to bravely fight for a Jewish
home in Germany despite his terrible past experiences. Federal Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder said that Bubis had contributed more than almost anyone
to making a Jewish future possible again in Germany. Bubis is to be buried
in Israel tomorrow.  President Rau and Minister of the Interior Otto
Schily will be attending the funeral tomorrow. The Chairman of the Jewish
Community in Berlin, Andreas Nachama, felt that it is too early to make
any speculations regarding Bubis's successor, since Bubis only died
yesterday. Nachama told "Norddeutsche Rundfunk" that the decision
regarding a successor will probably be made in November at the earliest.
Jewish historian Wolfson had commented earlier that Nachama could be a
possible candidate.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-3>
<H1>
Sauter responsible for LWS losses?
</H1>
The Bavarian SPD feels that Minister of Justice Alfred Sauter is directly
responsible for millions of marks in losses at LWS (Landeswohnungs und
Staedte Baugesellschaft, a German company).  Franz Maget, the Vice
Chairman of the SPD parliamentary party, referred to a preliminary report
of the Bavarian State Court of Auditors that he said had unearthed
unbelievably illegal acts. The report states that Sauter prevented the
cabinet from taking action that would have limited the risky building
contracts that the company was entering into. A spokesman for Sauter, Mr.
Zierl, has rejected the accusation.  He said that there was never a
question of the cabinet taking any action that would have entailed backing
out from projects that were already on line.

<P>
LWS racked up losses totalling 367 million German Marks between 1995 and
1998 due to risky real estate and building contracts, especially in
Eastern Germany. Minister of Justice Sauter was the company's Supervisory
Board Chairman during this period.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-4>
<H1>
Stricter penalties for shoplifters
</H1>
Justice Minister Herta Daeubler-Gmelin announced a draft of a statute on
shoplifting. Shoplifters who steal goods worth less than 50 DM are
presently not prosecuted in most German states. Daeubler-Gmelin intends to
introduce a 100 DM fine next year for these cases. Should the guilty party
chose not to pay the fine, the case will then be turned over to the
prosecuting attorneys. Ms. Daeubler-Gmelin also wants to relieve the
detention centers by assigning those with shorter sentences to service
with charitable and non-profit organizations.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-5>
<H1>
Suit against Sunday hours is withdrawn
</H1>
The saleswoman of a Leipzig department store has withdrawn her suit
against her employer, according to Horten management. The woman intended
to stop stores from opening on Sundays. The city of Leipzig had granted
357 stores individual permits to open on Sunday this weekend.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-14-6>
<H1>
Formula 1 racing
</H1>
Formula 1 champion Mika Haekkinen will be starting at the pole position
tomorrow during the Hungarian Grand Prix. The McLaren-Mercedes driver had
the fastest times during qualification training. Ferrari driver Eddie
Irvine will start next to Haekkinen in the first row. Heinz-Harald
Frentzen ended the training session with the fifth best time.

