<DOC de-news-1999-07-11-1>
<H1>
Convention of Bavarian Green Party
</H1>
The Bavarian Green Party has demanded a fundamental change of direction in
state policy on schools. The delegates of the party convention in Lindau
passed a resolution that says that school should be geared to the skills
and needs of children and teenagers. Better care during school and after
school hours is necessary. Schools also have to offer students more
opportunity to be responsible for their own learning. The Green Party also
decided to support the plebiscite initiative "Better School Reform", put
on the ballot by the Bavarian Teachers' Association to stop plans of the
State Government to introduce a six-year "Realschule" (secondary modern
school) program. During the debate, the Green Party's Speaker on Education
Ms. Muenzel had criticized the education system in Bavaria. Ms. Muenzel
proposed to diminish the competency of the Ministry of Education and to
introduce a school parliament that represents teachers, parents and
students and makes all the important decisions.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-11-2>
<H1>
Eichel not willing to make concessions in savings package
</H1>
According to his own words, German Minister of Finance Mr. Eichel is not
willing to make concessions in regards to his savings package. Mr. Eichel
told Deutschlandfunk radio that not everything has to be put into action
exactly the way he has proposed in his 30 billion Mark program. But if
someone wants to take something out, they have to propose alternative
sources for savings. The 30 billion are not negotiable. At the same time,
the Finance Minister rejected the complaint of cities and municipalities
that they are especially targeted by the savings program. Eichel said that
the opposite is true, and the financial situation of the municipalities is
very good on average. If individual cities have financial problems, these
should be solved by the states via communal equalization.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-11-3>
<H1>
Unions sharply reject Beck's proposals
</H1>
The trade unions have sharply rejected the proposal by
Rhineland-Palatinate State Premier Kurt Beck to only grant employees wage
increases to keep pace with inflation for a period of two years. There are
good, less good, and stupid propositions, the President of the National
Trade Union Federation Mr. Schulte said; Mr. Beck's proposition belongs to
the stupid ones. A speaker for the Union for Public Service and
Transportation declared that her union rejects any attack on its
bargaining autonomy. A speaker of the Union for Metal, Engineering and
Electronics called the proposition nonsense, saying the SPD politician has
no clue and speaks about things he does not understand. Mr. Beck had
proposed two zero-percent contracts for all employees in an interview with
the weekly paper "Bild am Sonntag", and discussions about it in the
Alliance for Work, in order to stabilize the social systems and strengthen
the competitive edge of the economy. The President of the Council of
German Chambers of Commerce Mr. Stihl has welcomed Mr. Beck's proposal.
Mr. Stihl told ZDF-TV that the proposal is good as well as brave, and a
way to reduce unemployment in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-11-4>
<H1>
Grand Prix of England
</H1>
Michael Schumacher had an accident during the Formula 1 race for the Grand
Prix of England. At 200 kilometres per hour, he hit a pile of tires with
his Ferrari and broke his right leg. He was taken to hospital for a
thorough examination. Doctors gave his condition as stable. Ferrari said
there were problems with the back brakes. The race had been interrupted
before the accident because the Canadian Jacques Villeneuve had not been
able to move at the start and been hit by another car. The race was
started again 45 minutes later. The British driver David Coulthard won the
race, followed by Eddie Irvine of Northern Ireland and Ralf Schumacher. In
the overall standings, Mika Hakkinen of Finland, who was eliminated today
because of a technical problem, is still leading.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-11-5>
<H1>
Tour de France
</H1>
Lance Armstrong of the USA has won the first timed race of the Tour de
France. He needed 1 hour and 8 minutes for the distance of 56.5 km and
thus regained the overall lead. Jan Kirsipuu from Estonia who had been in
the lead so far was beaten badly in the eighth stage. The best German was
Jens Voigt from Berlin in eighth place; he is driving for the French team
of "Credit agricole".

