<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-1>
<H1>
Wildcat strikes in the banking sector
</H1>
The unions HBV and DAG intend to stage strikes and demonstrations to force
employers back to the bargaining table, and they want to get fully paid
sick-leave. As the latter was not part of the awards, new legislation
(introduced recently) will now prevail, effectively reducing paid
sick-leave from 100% to 80% of gross pay. The unions expect turn-out to
be considerable. Cologne and Leverkusen kicked it off on Monday, when some
bank staff stayed at home, and the rest of the country is expected to follow
suit during the day. Mr Kalin, of the HBV, said on television that no-one
would accept reduced pay lying down. "That's why we tell our members in
many cities to take part in industrial action, wildcat-strikes,
demonstrations and stop-work meetings - and that's our right, according to
the constitution, our's and non-members'. We propose to set up health
committees comprising employers, union organisers, company doctors and
others to develop initiatives for better health. We think that this would
save more money than the .3% employers intend to save by reducing paid
sick-leave." The unions want to write that into the awards, and use
wildcat-strikes as a means to put pressure on employers, to make them resume
negotiations.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-2>
<H1>
CSU Party Conference
</H1>
This afternoon the delegates to the 60th CSU party conference in Munich
were into discussing principles of their policies leading into the next
millennium. The two-day meeting's motto was : "To the future". Controversial
issues got the cold shoulder; they discussed items beyond run-of-the-mill
politics instead. Neither bickering nor back-stabbing nor personal attacks -
all harmony. As Mr Bernd Protzner, Secretary General, said: "In Bavaria as
in Germany we have to proceed with reforms and renewal. We will have to stop
looking back and moaning about what had been possible in the past. We'll
have to develop ideas for the future and talk about solutions to upcoming
challenges."

<P>
In spite of all the looking-forward, the agenda was like in the past.
First, head of the party, Mr Theo Waigel, delivered his speech, then a
member of the church did more of the same, and finally Chancellor Helmut
Kohl will address the delegates.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-3>
<H1>
Military experts discuss expedition to Eastern Zaire
</H1>
Today military experts from 20 different countries discussed
details of a possible military expedition to Eastern Zaire, and they are
to reach a final decision about sending soldiers by this weekend. Last week
more than half of the 1 million refugees had returned to Rwanda, and that
was why there appeared to be no immediate need to send soldiers any more.
According to UN-aid organisations, satellite pictures would give the
impression that there were still about 700,000 refugees roaming the forests
in Eastern Zaire's mountains.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-4>
<H1>
Members of parliament ask for suspension of diplomatic relations with Iran
</H1>
Several CDU/CSU and FDP members of parliament want diplomatic
relations with Iran suspended. Mr Wilhelm, CDU expert for internal
affairs, asked for diplomats to be recalled when interviewed by the tabloid
BILD. Governments that ordered murders were not to be trusted. On Wednesday,
spiritual leaders in Iran had asked for the 'death-sentence' for the three
federal prosecutors currently working at the Mykonos trial.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-5>
<H1>
Mykonos-trial: federal government draws plenty of flak
</H1>
Complainant Wolfgang Wieland accused the government of having done nothing
when they knew that Iran's government had had their fingers in the pie, and
that they had preferred to do nothing and hide behind the judiciary instead.
No wonder that, given this sort of pussy-footing, Iran issued death-threats
in turn.

<P>
Meanwhile both sides are trying hard to keep the conflict from escalating
any further. As early as yesterday, Chancellor Kohl wrote a letter to Iran's
Prime Minister Rafsanchani, asking for moderation. The latter replied today.

<P>
Mr Kohl's letter won quite positive acceptance in Teheran. Mr Rafsanchani
came to the rescue while saying his prayers on Friday, at the university,
explicitly siding with government and Germany against the recent attacks by
radical demonstrators in his country (actually using the word 'riots'
when referring to what had gone on last week). He appealed to the believers
that they should not forget that Germany was not their main enemy, but the
USA and Israel, both trying to disturb relations between Teheran and Bonn.
For the first time he also admitted that the public prosecutors' and the
government's views were two different things. Mr Rafsanchani said that
"we are convinced that the majority in Bonn's government does not want any
trouble with Iran". Up to now he had refrained from commenting on the issue.
He also said that both sides should try and keep the situation under control,
and wanted a continued dialogue with Bonn as this would be in the interest
of both countries (almost quoting a similar-sounding passage in Mr Kohl's
letter).

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-6>
<H1>
Christoph Seitler gives himself up
</H1>
The murder of banker Alfred Herrhausen had not been solved so far, even
seven years after it had happened, though police always wanted to talk to
the number-one suspect, 38-year old Christoph Seitler, whereabouts unknown.
He was also alleged to having been a member of the RAF-terrorist
organisation. Recently Mr Seitler, who had absconded, refuted both
allegations when interviewed by the magazine DER SPIEGEL. He also said that
he would give himself up to the public prosecutor, which he did today.
This morning he knocked on the Federal Court of Justice's door, and may even
leave it tonight, a free man. Meanwhile he intends to prove conclusively,
together with his lawyers, that in autumn 1989 he was in a Lebanese camp run
by the PLO, so could not have committed the crime. The judge now will have to
decide if the arrest-warrant for Mr Seitler will get suspended. Even if
he would remain a murder-suspect, they could suspend it, as there was no
danger of Mr Seitler's absconding. A man who gives himself up in spite of
grave accusations, is unlikely to abscond again just like that.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-7>
<H1>
President of Hesse's supreme court resigns
</H1>
Judge Horst Henries, controversial president of the Hesse supreme court,
resigned, after having been asked repeatedly to do so - the last time as late
as yesterday - because he had caused grave harm to the judiciary. The judge
had received a fee of 1.34 million marks for an expert's report commissioned
by the metal-workers' union (IG Metall). Originally he had been convinced that
he had done nothing wrong, and vigorously refuted allegations. Today he said
that he resigned as apparently he did not have the confidence of the majority
in Hesse's parliament any more.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-8>
<H1>
Rehabilitation to stay in compulsory services catalogue of health insurers
</H1>
State health ministers want to keep rehabilitation and domestic
help in the health insurers' compulsory services catalogue. Their resolution
spoke of terrible consequences for health infrastructure and jobs in the
health sector, in case they were abolished.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-9>
<H1>
Two men trying to hold Coca-Cola to ransom arrested in Hildesheim
</H1>
Two men trying to hold Coca-Cola to ransom, were arrested in
Hildesheim, Lower Saxony, according to the police. Both had threatened to
poison drinks if they were not paid a 7-digit sum of money. According to the
police, they had had up to 200 officers on the case for the last four weeks,
thereby confirming a report by the newspaper HANNOVERSCHE ALLGEMEINE
ZEITUNG.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-10>
<H1>
Three persons killed on icy roads
</H1>
Last night there were numerous traffic accidents, mainly in
southern Germany, due to icy roads. Baden-Wuerttemberg took the cake with
more than 100 accidents. There were three fatalities and more than 20
casualties. More of the same happened in Bavaria. In the morning the
autobahn between Osnabrueck and Paderborn had to closed after several
accidents caused by drivers' losing control of their vehicle in extremely
icy conditions.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-22-11>
<H1>
Mr Becker loses last group match in Hanover
</H1>
Playing at the tennis world-cup, Mr Boris Becker lost his last
group-match against Mr Enqvist from Sweden 3:6 and 6:7. Previously he had
been almost certain to become the group's winner, and now, in the
semi-finals, will meet the winner of the match between Thomas Muster and
Richard Kraijcek. Peter Sampras, who tops the world-list, also got into the
semi-finals beating Jevgeni Kafelnikov 6:4 and 6:4.

