<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-1>
<H1>
Bonn demands quick reforms in Russia
</H1>
After the announcement of new reforms in the Russian economy, German
politicians demanded a quick application of these reforms. According to the
minister of finance, Mr Waigel, a long-term stabilisation can only be
achieved by creating a new faith in the money market and in the public.
Therefore, above all, the system of taxation has to be changed and the
budget has to get back its feet again. The minister for economic affairs,
Mr Rexrodt, has also requested a consistent application of the
free-enterprise reforms. The effective rouble devaluation is one of the
requirements for Russia to be able to solve its internal problems and
therefore be economically successful again.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-2>
<H1>
Seehofer: From now on dentures are subject to authorisation
</H1>
The minister for health, Mr Seehofer, wants the medical treatment of
dentures for health plan patient to be covered again by the health
insurance scheme. With that, Seehofer reacted to a study of the public
health insurance scheme, according to which, more than 30% of the dentist's
bills were far too high. The study is based on a spot check done at the
beginning of August. An earlier study in April showed a similar result.
Seehofer was talking about an abnormal behaviour of dentists that can be
considered outrageous and not acceptable. In the future this should be
prevented by law.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-3>
<H1>
More jobs found through employment offices
</H1>
During the first 6 month of 1998, 1.8 million people got jobs
through the employment offices in Germany. The number has increased by 11%
compared with the same period of 1997. According to the president of the
Federal Labour Office, Mr Jagoda, the reasons for this development are not
only the increasing number of job offers, but also the brilliant effort of
the politics on the labour market, i.e. the labour market of the academics
went up by almost 30%. The federal minister for employment, Mr Bluem,
valued the numbers as a further proof for a change on the labour market. On
the other hand, the trade unions pointed out that especially in the
newly-formed German states, most of the mediated jobs are limited or
ABM-jobs. According to a conform estimation of the Federal Labour Office in
Nuremberg and the Federal Government the number of unemployed is going to
level out at about 4.3 million.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-4>
<H1>
Public promise in Kiel
</H1>
Accompanied by protests, 367 soldiers of the German armed forces have
given a public promise in Kiel. During the ceremony, which lasted just
under one hour, about 400 people demonstrated against the promise. About
200 of them tried to interrupt the function. While doing so, they threw
paint bombs and  bottles around and burned down some fireworks. The police
took 20 Protestants temporarily into custody and according to the police,
no one had been injured.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-5>
<H1>
AOK wants to automatically pay back after possible BVG-judgement
</H1>
The general health insurance scheme (AOK) of Baden-Wuerttemberg
wants to automatically pay back the social security contribution for
holiday pay and Christmas bonus in case the Federal Constitutional Court is
going to object to the practise used up to now. According to the statement
of the chairman of the AOK, Mr Sing, in Stuttgart, the excess of the made
payments in 1997 will be reimbursed at 4% interest. The insured do not have
to hand in a claim for the payments. To this agreement came the top
organisations of the social security, of the trade union and of the
employers' association.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-6>
<H1>
Confessions in the second doping trial
</H1>
Already at the beginning of the second trial about the systematic
doping in the former GDR-sport, all five accused, two medical doctors and
three coaches, confessed to have distributed male hormones among minors.
The former medical doctor of the TSC Berlin Roessler apologised to the
doping victims. Both Roessler and die other responsible medical doctor
Suender admitted to have passed hormone pills on. The preparation called
'Oral-Turinabol' had been given by all three coaches to the swimmers. All
five defendants denied the accusation of the public prosecutor's office to
have intentionally harmed the sportswomen. They did not know about the side
effects of the hormone preparations. Both doctors denied to have injected
any testosterone. The public prosecutor's office accused the five
defendants of bodily harm on purpose. After today's confession, the
judgement is probably going to be passed on already on the coming Tuesday.
The trial would therefore be a lot shorter than the first doping trial,
where most of the defendants were not willing to confessed.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-7>
<H1>
Hans-Joachim Kuhlenkampff dead
</H1>
Hans-Joachim Kuhlenkampff is dead. The showmaster and actor died 77 years
old in his home near Salzburg, Austria last Friday. He died of pancreas
cancer. He had withdrawn from TV in March because of his illness.
Kuhlenkampff was mostly known for his TV quizz show "Einer wird gewinnen"
[an acronym pun on the European Economic Community] that was first
broadcast in 1964. He hosted the show with interruptions until 1987.
Kuhlenkampffs career started as actor in Bremen when he was 25 years old.
Even during his greatest success on TV he remained true to the stage and
acted in some TV movies.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-18-8>
<H1>
Editorials on Lothar Spaeth's appointment to the Chancellor's Office
</H1>
Newspaper editorials regarding Lothar Spaeth's appointment as counsellor
for "Future and Innovation" in the Chancellor's Office:

<P>
Stuttgarter Nachrichten: "Lothar Spaeth has returned to federal politics,
not very spectacularly but neither through the back door. After all it was
Helmut Kohl himself who was able to re-instil enthusiasm for the grand
politics into the 60-year-old after almost a decade. Thus, Kohl made a
skilled move. First, Kohl puts Spaeth who is now a successful economic
leader in a position to oppose Jost Stollmann, Schroeder's economic
diversion rocket. Second, Kohl is using Spaeth's unusually high reputation
in the eastern states as a modernizer, especially after he successfully led
his company Jenoptik to the stock market, to garner votes exactly there
where the continuously partly desolate CDU desperately needs each
additional vote."

<P>
Mannheimer Morgen: "One may be surprised that exactly this Mr. Spaeth is to
return to politics just five weeks before the federal elections as a
successful manager of a technology company. Kohl would have had ample
opportunity during the 16 years that his office has lasted so far to
install such a council if he was really interested in the topics future and
innovation. Now, the Chancellor has only the chance to surround himself
with wise heads and do exactly the same of which the CDU is criticizing the
Social-Democrat Gerhard Schroeder: to campaign with names instead of
arguments."

<P>
Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung: "Lothar Spaeth as the economics adviser to
Chancellor Kohl - who could have imagined that? Who would have thought that
the two within-party opponents find back to each other? Wonders will never
cease. The explanation is simpler: Kohl has the water up the neck. For ages
the CDU has been unable to set foot in the East. The East, however, loves
Spaeth who has led the company Jenoptik out of a crisis to the stock
market."

<P>
Sueddeutsche Zeitung: "Election times are emergency times. When the voters'
love has left the Chancellor he remembers party friends whose advice he had
rejected just four months ago. Therefore we observe with amusement that now
Kohl even appointed Lothar Spaeth as economic counsellor for "Future and
Innovation" to the Chancellor's Office. If it had been 1989, a few months
before the Wall came down and the CDU had followed Spaeth, the party would
have brought down party leader Kohl and replaced him with
Chancellor-in-waiting Spaeth. The smart Suabian [Spaeth] lost, first his
party offices then his office as state premier because he had accepted too
many offers for private long-distance travels. ... (Spaeth) is one of the
few politicians who are also successful in the economy. This is an ornament
to him, the CDU, and should also help Kohl. Brutus has repented
sufficiently."

