<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-1>
<H1>
AOK Sharply Criticizes Seehofer
</H1>
The association of local health insurance companies AOK has voiced sharp
criticism of Minister of Health Horst Seehofer. The AOK accuses Seehofer
of ruining the AOK with the third stage of his health reform. During the
process, specifically those insurance companies which still held on to
social principles were being penalized.
In an interview, the chair of the AOK board of managers, Peter Kirch, said
that if the third stage of the health reform was carried out as planned,
the AOK would have nowhere to go. The AOK would suffer losses so high in
several regions that the association as a whole might not survive. Thus,
Seehofer was penalizing the one insurance company that  followed the
strictest social principles in health insurance, explained Kirch. He
explained that the reasons for the strained financial situation were the
unfavorable pool of members, as well as the weak financial basis. In his
opinion, the only way the AOK could survive would be to change the risk
equity payment in its favor. Instead, it is slated to receive 850 Million
Marks annually, as part of the structural reform. Already, the AOK was
forced to collect higher premiums than for example the insurance
companies with restricted membership. If the premiums were raised any
further, and if the patients were required to make higher co-payments, as
slated in the reform, then members would start switching to other
providers. In this case, Kirch predicts a market ruled by generic
health insurance or completely private health protection will be most
prevalent in the future, as after the AOK other insurance companies would
also be forced into bankruptcy.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-2>
<H1>
Seehofer Sharply Criticizes Health Insurance Companies
</H1>
Again, Minister of Health Seehofer has voiced sharp criticism of the health
insurance providers. In an interview with the Hamburg news magazine "Der
Spiegel," he explained that currently, the companies did not have an
income that was too low, but rather expenses that were too high. Seehofer
added that for years, funds had been used to cover superfluous, and
sometimes even illegal expenses. In the following, the health companies
had raised their premiums and blamed their problems on the politicians,
said Seehofer.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-3>
<H1>
Further Cuts in Health Insurance Services Slated
</H1>
According to a report published by the newspaper "Bild-Zeitung," the
governing coalition is considering cuts in the list of services covered
by health insurance. Possible candidates for reductions are the death and
maternity aid currently paid by the insurance companies. Abortion,
sterilization, and artificial insemination will not be covered, any more,
either. The reason for these measures given by CSU health expert Zoeller
is that the health insurance companies were not really responsible for the
payment of these services. Instead they had to be paid for with tax
revenue. CDU politician Hoefel added that maternity aid was unrelated
to disease and should not be covered by health insurance to begin with.
Several professional and restricted membership insurance companies have
announced that they will raise their premiums by about one percentage point
before the end of the year.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-4>
<H1>
Protests at Daimler Benz
</H1>
In protest against the cut in sick pay recently announced, about 20,000
employees in three domestic Mercedes plants did not report for additional
shifts today. The union for metal, engineering and electronics reports that
manufacturing was down in Sindelfingen because most of the 13,000 workers
employed there had not come to work. About 3,000 employers were missing
from the plant in Stuttgart-Untertuerkheim. The board of managers of the
Bremen plant reported that only several hundred of the 4,000 workers
scheduled for today's shift showed up at work. Due to the high demand of
Mercedes vehicles, each plant was to run up to five additional shifts on
Saturdays. The representatives for the employees had rescinded this
agreement after Daimler Benz had decided to implement cuts in sick pay.
Daimler manager Schremp defended the cuts in an interview with the news
magazine "FOCUS," today. He explained that the sick payments caused
additional costs of 600 million Marks annually.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-5>
<H1>
Government Does Not Consider Employers' Measures Constitutional
</H1>
Government experts do not consider the actions of the employers in
cutting the sick pay to be constitutional, reports the news magazine "Der
Spiegel." Experts of the Office of the Chancellor, as well as experts of the
ministry for employment and the ministry for justice, are reported to have
circulated a confidential paper in which they conclude that eighty
per-cent of all employees are employed in areas where salaries cannot be
cut without prior cancellation of current collective wage agreements.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-6>
<H1>
Scharping Calls for Bluem's Resignation
</H1>
SPD governmental group speaker Scharping has called Minister for Employment
Norbert Bluem to resign. In an interview with the press agency "dpa,"
Scharping said that Bluem was taking the brunt of the coalition fights
concerning further social cuts. Scharping added that if Bluem did not
want to pull back any further, he should rather retire from office
altogether. Scharping further thought it scandalous that large firms were
planning to cut sick pay for their lower-level employees, but wanted to
keep it for top-level personnel. He accused these firms of trying to break
the union's strength in announcing the cuts in sick pay, and elaborated
that in doing so, the companies were threatening the currently peaceful
social climate.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-7>
<H1>
Murrmann Criticizes Collective Wage Agreement in Retail Industry
</H1>
The present of the federal association of employers, Murrmann, has voiced
criticism of the collective wage agreements that were arrived at in Hesse and
North Rhine-Westphalia. In an interview with the newspaper "Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung," Murrmann said that with the agreement stipulating the
continuation 100 per cent sick pay, the employers had accepted and
unacceptable solution. Murrmann suspected that the industry did not want
to risk any further strikes, in light of the approaching Christmas sales.
Murrmann called all public employers to cancel the public employee's
collective wage agreement right away.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-8>
<H1>
OeTV Celebrates Centennial Anniversary
</H1>
The union for public service and transportation (OeTV) is
celebrating its one hundredth anniversary today. One of the speakers at the
celebration in the Stuttgart convention hall "Liederhalle" was president
Roman Herzog. Representatives of the government and of the public
employers were also expected to attend. Tomorrow, the union OeTV will
begin its federal congress, which is scheduled to last several days.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-9>
<H1>
Herzog Admonishes Wage Negotiation Parties
</H1>
President Herzog has called the wage negotiation parties not to threaten the
competitiveness of products made in Germany through their disagreements
concerning sick pay. In his speech at the OeTV anniversary celebration,
Herzog pointed out that the unions did not have to accept every demand
formulated by the employers, however they did have to check every
suggestion made by the employers for its economical merit and for its
ability to secure jobs. The president called to consider the strained
budget situation an opportunity for improvement, rather than a burden. He
added that until now all participants could agree only on the one premise
that the budget needed to be cut, while everybody expected somebody else
to take the brunt of those reductions.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-10>
<H1>
Disagreements Concerning Funding of Bundeswehr Mission to Bosnia
</H1>
A major fight appears to be emerging within the governing coalition regarding
the question of funding for the future Bundeswehr mission to Bosnia. FDP
defense expert Koppelin told a newspaper that even though a Bundeswehr
mission during the next year was desirable, it could not be afforded. He
added that before the government made any international promises, it
needed to convince itself how it was going to pay for an extension of the
mission beyond December 20 of the current year. The Chair of the federal
defense committee, CSU politician Rose, explained that the defense budget
was already cut to the point where there were no more funds available to
cover international missions. Minister of Defense Ruehe has been asked to
send 3,000 soldiers to participate a new peace mission in Bosnia.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-11>
<H1>
Extraordinary Party Conference of the Bavarian SPD
</H1>
Bavaria's SPD met in Nuremberg this morning for an extraordinary party
conference. The motto of the meeting, "Ideas and Concepts for a Better
Future," pointed toward an economic and social political focus of the
discussion. Both professional and school education, as well as industrial
progress were addressed. Young SPD members were asked to paint their
vision of Bavaria for the future. At the opening event the chair of the
Bavarian SPD, Schmidt, stressed the political power of the SPD in Bavaria.
He said that if the opposition party did stop fighting for governmental
power, it was not doing its job.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-12>
<H1>
Actor Klaus Holm Dead
</H1>
The actor Klaus Holm died yesterday at age 78. Born in Bochum,
Holm had become famous through numerous roles in feature films.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-13>
<H1>
Fatal Car Accident near Bamberg
</H1>
During an accident in Bamberg county, four people were killed this
morning. A car collided with a truck when it tried to pass another
vehicle. The driver of the BMW did not notice the truck coming toward him
on the opposite side of the road, while passing two cars in his lane. The
BMW was completely destroyed in the head-on collision. The 21-year-old
truck driver from Chemnitz tried to warn the oncoming car by flashing the
high beams, and then swerved into the left lane, in order to avoid a
collision. At the same time, the BMW also tried to avoid the truck and
swerved to the right, resulting in a head-on collision of the two
vehicles. The four passengers of the BMW, three young men and one woman,
were trapped inside the smashed vehicle. Their bodies could only be recovered
dead. Probably this accident is representative of a typical "discotheque
accident."

<DOC de-news-1996-09-28-14>
<H1>
The Weather
</H1>
At the coastlines and in Southern Bavaria heavy clouds with rain or showers.
Cloudy in the rest of the country, with occasional sunshine and showers. High
temperatures at 13 to 18, lows during the night around 11 to 4 degrees
Celsius. In Northern Germany strong winds. Extended Forecast: In the
North rain and showers at 13 to 18 degrees Celsius. In the South cloudy
with sunny intervals, decrease in rain, and temperatures warming to 20 to
25 degrees.

