<DOC de-news-1998-05-27-1>
<H1>
Calls for Environment Minister to resign are rejected
</H1>
The Buendnis 90/The Greens Bundestag fraction has failed in its
attempt to force Angela Merkel, the Federal Minister for the
Environment, to resign. The Minister (CDU) had come in for criticism
because of the recently discovered contamination caused by the
transportation of nuclear waste. During the debate in the Bundestag,
Chancellor Kohl clearly expressed his personal support for the
minister. Merkel said that the Greens and the SPD were making such
grave accusations in an attempt to divert attention away from the
federal states' own responsibility in the affair. Joschka Fischer, the
spokesman for the Green parliamentary faction, and also some SPD
deputies, called for a general abandonment of nuclear power, given the
unsolved question of the disposal of atomic waste, but the Environment
Minister said that she thought that the use of atomic energy was still
perfectly acceptable. All parties condemned the fact that the atomic
industry had suppressed information regarding the contamination; on
Thursday the Green parliamentary faction is to debate whether they
should apply for an investigatory committee to be set up.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-27-2>
<H1>
Daimler-Benz to create 5,000 new jobs
</H1>
Despite the coming merger with the American automobile manufacturer
Chrysler, the Daimler-Benz company is planning to create new jobs and
training places this year. At a General Meeting in Stuttgart, the
company director, Schrempp, said that an additional 5,000 workers are
to be employed thanks to the company's recent economic success and
more training places are to be set up.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-27-3>
<H1>
CSU renews its opposition to a grand coalition
</H1>
The leadership of the CSU has reiterated its opposition to the idea of
a 'Grand Coalition' (a coalition of the CDU/CSU and the SPD) following
the general election in the Autumn. CSU leader Theo Waigel said that
co-operation between the CDU/CSU and the SPD would strengthen the
extreme right and extreme left. In an interview with the 'Sueddeutsche
Zeitung' newspaper, the Prime Minister of Bavaria, Edmund Stoiber
(CSU), also spoke out against a coalition with the SPD. Given their
dealings with the PDS, Waigel accused the SPD of trying to alter the
fabric of the republic.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-27-4>
<H1>
Bertelsmann-Kirch alliance forbidden by EU-Commission
</H1>
The plans of the 'Bertelsmann' and 'Kirch' media companies to
co-operate in the introduction of digital pay television into Germany
have fallen through, at least for the time being. The European
Commission and its Commissioner for Competition, van Miert,
unanimously rejected the proposal in order to prevent the
establishment of a monopoly involving the merger of the two companies
and the participation of Deutsche Telekom. The Kirch group is to
contend this decision, however; it is planning to submit a new
application which might yet lead to the alliance of the two companies.
Even the German Commissioner for Industry, Marin Bangemann, agreed
with the hard line against the alliance after Bertelsmann had
submitted this morning a written rejection of certain concessions
which would have made the agreement possible. Van Miert has said that
this decision means that Deutsche Telekom is now free to look around
for another solution. The 'D-Box', which was developed by Kirch to
receive the digital television signal, will probably remain the
industry standard, however.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-27-5>
<H1>
Johannes Rau steps down as Northrhein-Westphalia's PM after 20 years
</H1>
The 'Johannes Rau' era in Northrhein-Westphalia is finally over; the
state parliament has elected the former Minister for Economics,
Clement, as the new Prime Minister, as was expected. Rau had earlier
stepped down as Prime Minister after almost 20 years in the post. He
will stay on in the Duesseldorf parliament as an ordinary deputy and
will also continue as deputy leader of the national party. Following
Rau's resignation, all state ministers were automatically dismissed;
the make up of the new cabinet will be made known next week at the
earliest.

