<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-1>
<H1>
German General Elections
</H1>
Germany has voted a new government to power. Around 60.5 million Germans
eligible to vote have been casting ballots to vote for a new parliament
till 6 p.m. [Sunday]. 5062 candidates from 33 political parties (more than
ever before) are competing for 656 seats. Half the parliamentary seats are
reserved for "direct" seats (the so-called first ballot), the rest are
allocated by the parties from a federal state list (the second ballot).
Election centres already reported around midday that the turnout was high.
Four and half percent more voters had cast their ballot in the first few
hours of voting than in comparison to the last elections four years ago.
According to election organisers, 31 percent of eligible voters had cast
their ballots by midday, two percent more than four years ago. This figure
did not include voters who cast their ballots by post. Voting was
particularly high in the East German states. Thirty seven percent of
eligible voters had cast their ballots by midday, which is an increase of
eight percent in comparison with the last elections. There were long queues
in some polling stations in Berlin, New Brandenburg and Rostock. Only 79
percent of eligible voters voted in 1994, whereas 80.2 percent voted in
1998.

<P>
It is forecast that the CDU (Christian Democrat) government and the Kohl
era has come to an end. Computer projections have forecast that the CDU
will lose a lot of support. The main cause for this is that firm CDU
supporters have been deserting the party. This is particularly clear in the
East German states where voters have deserted to the SPD (Social
Democrats). The SPD has support throughout Germany from both blue and
white-collar workers and the jobless. The CDU also lost the support of
self-employed voters to the FDP (Free Democrats). The SPD made gains over
the CDU all over Germany. Gerhard Schroeder is the most-likely candidate
for the third social democratic German chancellor in the history of the
Federal Republic of Germany.

<P>
Computer projections forecast that a red-green coalition is possible,
independent of whether the PDS (Party of Democratic Socialism) manage to
overcome the five-percent hurdle or not. Both the Greens and the FDP will
be represented in the new parliament. The Greens have strong support from
young voters and better-educated women between 35 and 44. PDS election
results are causing some interest as projections have forecast that for the
first time, the party should be able to overcome the five percent hurdle;
however, they have already won three direct seats in the east of Berlin so
it may not be absolutely necessary for them to receive five-percent of the
vote. The PDS is primarily an East German party and has high support
amongst civil servants.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-3>
<H1>
Comments from Leading Politicians
</H1>
German chancellor Helmut Kohl is going to resign as leader of the CDU. He
said that "there is nothing to discuss about the defeat, and naturally I
must draw my own conclusions. The CDU party executive will discuss this
tomorrow, where I will ask them to assume that I will not be available for
re-election as party chairman at our next state party conference".

<P>
Gerhard Schroeder said:"I had sensed in advance that we would have a big
lead in the elections, but I didn't expect these election results. We have
managed to reach out beyond the classical SPD supporters. This is most
likely due to the fact that we have been open and shown that we sincerely
mean it when we talk about the "new middle". Voters have thus returned to
the SPD. Naturally the SPD knows that we have some difficult work ahead of
us. We have to examine the finances first to see where we can make
decisions. However, I say here clearly that our election promises can be
financed now and in the future; at least according to our present
knowledge".

<P>
Peter Struck, the parliamentary secretary-general of the SPD commented on
the election results, saying: "we knew that we would lie ahead of the CDU.
The voters have shown their support of the SPD at many pre-election events.
It is a great victory for Gerhard Schroeder as many would like him to be
the chancellor for the future; Helmut Kohl was really the chancellor for
the present. The results are therefore not surprising. However, the lead
over the CDU is much bigger than we expected; we really had not planned on
that".

<P>
Peter Hintze, the secretary-general for the CDU said that "the results of
this election are due to the content of the election programme. We were not
able to push through our politics of reform which we practised in the last
few years; and because our reforms have called for some sacrifices from the
German people, those people who vote for us, we were not able to assert our
policies over the sweet promises made by the opposition, which promise to
make voters' lives easier. The opposition have said that change is possible
without great effort; we do not need austerity measures, we will be able to
make changes more easily. Voters have accepted these promises and it is now
the SPD's duty to show how they are going to fulfil their promises".

<P>
Joschka Fisher, the leader of the Greens parliamentary party said: "Dear
friends, many of us have been working towards this day for sixteen years.
The Kohl era is definitely at an end. Gerhard Schroeder and the Social
Democrats have achieved a glowing election victory. I would like to
heartily congratulate Gerhard Schroeder, the chancellor-to-be, on behalf of
all of us".

<P>
Kurt Beck of the SPD, state premier of the Rhineland Palatinate said that
"I am naturally extremely satisfied that Gerhard Schroeder is to become
German Chancellor. The present chancellor, Helmut Kohl, has lost the
election. This is the first time in the history of the Federal Republic of
Germany, and I believe that voters want stability. The radical right
parties have not managed to get into any German parliament which is a
complement for those in positions of responsibility. We don't yet know if
the PDS have managed to get into parliament. I'm not yet sure if it is
fitting to make a similar compliment in this regard. For the rest, I assume
that there will now be much work done and that we will practise
economically successful politics which will improve the employment
situation and naturally, will lead to social justice".

<P>
Erwin Teufel (CDU), state premier of Baden Wuerttemberg said that he was
not in favour of a grand coalition. "I am definitely disappointed, but not
resigned. We have a strong local membership and support. We will use this
support in the federal states to obtain an upswing for the CDU in the next
few years and in four years, at federal level. It remains to be seen what
the Red-Green coalition will bring for our country, and it will be easier
to be in the opposition right now, as the coming government will not be
able to solve the problems in our country".

<P>
Wolfgang Gerhard, leader of the FDP, said: "We had a successful coalition
which has now been defeated in the current election. We congratulate
Gerhard Schroeder on his success and accept our role as the parliamentary
opposition".

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-4>
<H1>
Regional Elections in Mecklenburg West-Pomerania
</H1>
Parallel to the federel elections, Mecklenburg West-Pomerania has been
electing its state parliament. There too, more citizens had voted by midday
than in the 1994 elections. According to the election officers, 38% of
voters went to the polls in the morning. As elsewhere in Germany, there was
a massive slide away from the CDU and towards the SPD. The CDU received
approximately 30% of the votes in Mecklenburg West-Pomerania which
represents a loss of around 7%. The SPD achieved approxiamtely 35.5%.
According to the first exit polls, the PDS received about 23% of the vote,
an excellent result for the party.

<P>
The extreme right-wing parties did not make it into parliament. State
premier Bernd Seite of the CDU announced his resignation from office,
saying:"I have lost the election. We have not achieved our aim in this
election, that is a fact. I congratulate the SPD as well as the candidate
for the chancellorship. My party really fought well and ran a good
campaign, that was really splendid. However, we were unable to detach
ourselves from the nationwide trend. We could not emphasize our local
issues as we had expected. I would like to say quite clearly that I am not
seeking further office. Everything else will be decided by the committees
tomorrow evening and over the next few days."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-5>
<H1>
Referenda in Hamburg and Schlewsig-Holstein
</H1>
In addition to the federal elections, referenda were also held in
Schleswig-Holstein and Hamburg. In the northernmost German state, 2.1
million citizens were entitled to vote on the introduction of the
orthographic reform in schools. The issue at stake was whether children
should be taught according to the new orthography, or whether the old rules
should  continue to apply. The new orthography came into force on August
1st in all German schools and authorities. According to a projection
released by NDR (North German Broadcasting company), approximately 59% of
the electorate voted against the spelling reform. This means that in future
pupils in Schleswig-Holstein will  continue to be taught according to the
old rules. If the figure in this single projection is confirmed, the
initiative "Us Against the Spelling Reform" has suceeded in convincing
around 900,000 people to vote against the reform. A minimum of 530,000
votes was required. In Hamburg, citizens have been voting on whether the
hurdle for a public opinion poll should be lowered.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-6>
<H1>
New Timetable for German Rail
</H1>
German Rail has introduced additional rail connections and special fares
with its new timetable which came into force today. There has been a
particular increase in the number of services to and from Berlin. No
services have been discontinued. One new special offer is the "Autumn
Special" ticket. This costs 69 DM (49 DM for railcard holders) and
entitles passengers to travel on interregio trains at certain times and all
other trains in the evening. The introduction of the high-speed rail route
Hanover - Berlin has cut the journey time between the two cities by
approximately one hour. The number of InterCity Express (ICE) trains
operating westwards from Berlin has been increased by one quarter.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-7>
<H1>
Illegal immigrants from Kosovo apprehended
</H1>
Police and German border guards in Bavaria have apprehended 34 illegal
immigrants from Kosovo. They were discovered during routine controls of
two minibuses and a Eurocity train. The police has arrested two people
suspected of organizing the immigration.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-8>
<H1>
Foreign Citizens Week
</H1>
At the start of "Foreign Citizens Week", the churches in Germany have
spoken out against the sealing of Europe's borders. In a joint declaration
to all EU member states, the churches said that Europe had proved itself to
be a community with a good sense of right and wrong through its solidarity
with those seeking help. Foreigners and other minority groups must not be
made scapegoats for failed political policies.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-27-9>
<H1>
Luxembourg Grand Prix
</H1>
Mika Hakkinen has won the Luxembourg Grand Prix at the Nuerburgring.
Michael Schumacher finished in second place. Hakkinen now has 90 points in
the championship table and lies four points ahead of Schumacher. The final
outcome of this year's world championship will be decided at the Japanese
Grand  Prix in five weeks time.

