<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-1>
<H1>
Convention of Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics
</H1>
The Union for Metal, Engineering and Electronics will demand a wage
increase of 6.5 percent for the approximately 3.4 million employees in
the metal and electronics industries in the next round of collective
bargaining. This was decided by the Board of Directors. The union
rejects the employers' proposal to make wage increases dependent upon
profits. In Baden-Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate, new
collective wage agreements will be negotiated starting December 14.
The President of the Union has reproached the German government for
technical mistakes but generally supports its politics. During the
convention, Mr. Zwickel criticized the government's decision
concerning 620 mark jobs. In his opinion, the new regulation will not
curb low wage jobs but on the contrary make them more attractive. At
the same time, the union's President demanded improvements in the tax
reform concept, but he stressed that the general direction was
correct. German Chancellor Mr. Schroeder publicised his politics
during the congress and declared that the industrial society can not
be changed over night.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-2>
<H1>
No accord between government and electricity providers
</H1>
The prospects for an agreement between the German government and
electricity providers about the new law on nuclear energy have
worsened. In a letter to Chancellor Schroeder, the presidents of the
three biggest energy providers RWE, Veba and Viag explained that, in
their opinion, the basis for talks has been undermined by the proposal
by Minister of the Environment Trittin. In a report by the newspaper
"Handelsblatt", the presidents criticize the working paper proposal to
take operating reactors off line. Thus, the government has commited
itself to a position before negotiations have even started. The
President of the Union for Public Service and Transport also
criticized the government. He said in an interview that Mr. Trittin's
plans are putting thumb screws on the energy industry.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-3>
<H1>
Sales tax increases
</H1>
According to State Premier Clement of Northrhine-Westfalia, sales
taxes will be raised substantially over the next few years. Because of
the adjustment of taxes in Europe, the German rate will necessarily
have to be raised, Mr. Clement told "ZDF" TV. The Social Democratic
Party (SPD) politician demanded the government use the additional
revenue to alleviate the tax burden on small and medium enterprises.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-4>
<H1>
No exchange of prisoners
</H1>
The German government will not exchange Helmut Hofer, condemned to
death in Iran, for the Mykonos attackers imprisoned in Germany. A
Foreign Ministry spokesperson declared that a proposition to that
effect by the Green Secretary for Human Rights, Proppe cannot be
realized for legal reasons. In addition, the trial against Mr. Hofer
is not even over.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-5>
<H1>
Daeubler-Gmelin wants to include citizens in legislature
</H1>
German Minister of Justice Ms. Daeubler-Gmelin is planning more
citizen inclusion in the legislative procedures. The instruments of
public referenda and propositions should be put into the constitution.
This increase of citizens' rights should be connected with the
intended extension of legislative periods to five years. But the
red-green government still has to do a lot of convincing with the
Christian Democratic Party (CDU) and the Christian Social Union (CSU)
on this question. A two thirds majority is required for constitutional
changes.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-29-6>
<H1>
German Day of the "Junge Union" in Weiden
</H1>
Yesterday, Bavaria's State Premier Stoiber spoke to the delegates. He
sharply criticized the foreign policy of the government in Bonn and
suggested a referendum over dual citizenship. Today, CDU President
Schaeuble was guest of the junior members of the union parties. He
rejected Mr. Stoiber's proposal, and also criticized the red-green
coalition. He called on the "Junge Union" to be active and exert some
pressure, even against resistance within their own party. The union
needs a renewal after the lost general election. The CDU Chairman
attacked the government's ecological tax reform sharply. He said that
the planned reform is a program to destroy investments and jobs in
Germany. The red-green coalition is leading Germany into bankruptcy.
Finance Minister Lafontaine does nothing other than print money in a
modern way. The German Day of the "Junge Union" had the motto "Europe
for a new generation". Mr. Schaeuble called the European Union a
stable community especially in the areas of finance and exchange
politics. But the EU has to be reformed. Mr. Schaeuble demanded less
bureaucracy and more decentralization. In many areas, the Brussels'
responsibilities have to be returned to the regions.

