<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-1>
<H1>
Eight German citizens killed in bus crash in Turkey
</H1>
Fourteen people, including eight Germans, were killed in a head-on
crash involving two tourist buses in Turkey. Several German citizens
were also injured. The crash occurred near the town of Denizli as one
bus was attempting to overtake the other at high speed. The Foreign
Ministry has announced that the dead came from Northrhine-Westphalia,
Lower Saxony, Brandenburg, Hesse and Saarland. A spokesman for the
Hamburg-based tour company 'Oeger Tours' said that the crash occurred
at the start of an eight-day round-trip holiday.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-2>
<H1>
Bundestag agrees purchase of Eurofighter and defence budget for 1998
</H1>
The Bundestag has officially agreed the purchase of the 'Eurofighter'
aircraft. This afternoon, the CDU/CSU and FDP government used their
majority in parliament to agree the budget for the Ministry of Defence
for 1998; this includes the first DM 847 million needed for the serial
production of the aircraft. Additionally, a further DM 23.3 billion
have been pledged for the project during the years 1999-2014; the
German Air Force is to receive a total of 180 planes, starting in
2002. The SPD opposition and the Greens proposed motions against the
purchase of the plane, but these were voted down in parliament. Volker
Ruehe, the Minister for Defence, laid special emphasis on the point
that the Eurofighter is being built because Germany will need fighter
planes in the future, too, and he said that the Eurofighter is the
most modern plane with the lowest cost. Kolbow, a spokesman on defence
for the SPD, criticised the planned purchase, saying that concerns of
national security did not dictate that a whole 180 aircraft were
needed, and that the decision has been taken far to early, as there
are still technological risks involved with the plane, and the chief
weapons system has not yet been decided.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-3>
<H1>
Ruling coalition reject proposal for talks from SPD
</H1>
Representatives of the parties in the ruling coalition have delivered
an overwhelming rejection to SPD-leader Oskar Lafontaine's most recent
proposal for a reform of the tax law. In the budget debate, Lafontaine
made the suggestion that the highest rate of income tax should be
lowered from 53% to 49%, and that the lowest rate should be lowered
form 25.9% to 22%. Wolfgang Schaeuble, the leader of the CDU
parliamentary party, rejected the idea, saying that it would not solve
Germany's tax or employment problems. Both Schaueble's deputy, Wednick
(sp?), and Finance Minister Theo Waigel also thought the idea
unsatisfactory, and Graf Lambsdorff, a spokesman on the economy for
the FDP called the proposal nonsense, saying that no compromise could
be reached on the basis of such suggestions.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-4>
<H1>
Controversy over Federal Labour Office budget
</H1>
A new conflict on the issue of funding seems likely between the
Federal Government and the Federal Labour Office, based in Nuremberg.
Despite the opposition of the Government and employers, the
Administrative Board today agreed a budget for 1998; this envisages a
total of DM 110 billion, including a state subsidy of DM 15.7 billion.
The Government only want to grant the Labour Office DM 14.1 billion,
however.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-5>
<H1>
Only temporary help for eastern German health insurance agencies
</H1>
According to a report in the 'Duesseldorfer Handelsblatt', the
Ministry for Health has agreed that the planned financial help to be
given by west German health insurance agencies to their equivalents in
the east is to be limited to two or three years. A spokeswoman for the
Ministry denied the report, however, maintaining that talks on the
issue have not yet been completed. The background to this is that
federal and state health ministers have announced a plan whereby
health insurance agencies from the east of Germany should be brought
into a 'risk equalisation' plan for the whole of Germany from January
1999, in an attempt to reduce their deficits which total billions. It
is planned that transfers from the west to the east will be restricted
to DM 1.2 billion per year.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-26-6>
<H1>
Continued strikes at universities
</H1>
The protests against unsatisfactory conditions at German universities
have spread out to include more than 40 universities in strikes. In
Berlin, 10,000 students demonstrated through the streets, and further
marches occurred in Konstanz, Freiburg and Regensburg. A mass
demonstration is planned for Bonn tomorrow. Chancellor Kohl has said
that he understands the students problems, but, in a statement on the
issue in the Bundestag, he accused the federal states of being
responsible. At the same time, however, he announced that DM 40
million would be provided to buy new books for university libraries.
Oskar Lafontaine, the leader of the SPD and Prime Minister of Saarland
said that the federal government had contributed to the problem,
because it has cut funding for research and BAFoeG (the state's system
of maintenance grants and loans to students). Landfried, the president
of the University Rectors' Conference, called for a change in the
government's higher education policy. In an interview with the
'Rheinischer Merkur' newspaper, he said that, if necessary, an
additional 'solidarity tax' for the younger generation's future should
be raised to fund research and teaching to international levels.

