<DOC de-news-1997-03-01-1>
<H1>
Demonstrations Against Nuclear Waste Transport
</H1>
Demonstrations continued today in Lueneburg against the
transport of nuclear waste to the temporary storage facility in
Gorleben. Police report that there have been no incidents thus far.
The higher regional court in Lueneburg reaffirmed the ban on
demonstrations in the immediate vicinity of the CASTOR transport.
Demonstrators are to keep at least fifty meters away from all streets
and railroad tracks used by the transport. By this means, officials
hope to prevent blockades of the transport. During the coming week,
six CASTOR containers containing highly radioactive waste from
nuclear power plants in Germany and from the reprocessing plant in La
Hague, France are to be transported to and stored in Gorleben.
Currently, the transport train is currently still at Walheim, Baden-
Wuerttemberg. No incidents were reported from there, either.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-01-2>
<H1>
Bishop Huber Criticizes Bonn's Employment and Social Politics
</H1>
The bishop of the Protestant church in Berlin-Brandenburg, Huber, has
voiced criticism of the governmental course in employment and social
issues. One day following the publication of the "Sozialwort," a
social charter drafted jointly by the Catholic and Protestant
churches, Huber gave an interview with the radio station
"Deutschlandradio Berlin." He lamented the rapid decline in public
trust into the government and its politicians. He added that the
current extent of unemployment was indefensible. Huber explained that
the government could not watch the development on the employment
market without action any longer, if it was hoping to sustain itself.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-01-3>
<H1>
Schulte Hopes to Create 1.4 Million Jobs by Reduction of Work Hours
</H1>
The chair of the German federation of unions, Schulte, believes that
1.4 million new jobs could be created, through a combination of
several forms of reductions in working hours. In an interview with
the news magazine "FOCUS," Schulte said that the necessary means to
this end were a reduction by half in overtime, an increase in parttime labor, and the comprehensive introduction of the 35-hour work
week. He noted that through a realization of the 35-hour work week
alone, 570,000 jobs could be created, quoting from a statistic
published by the Federal Labor Office.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-01-4>
<H1>
Demonstrations For and Against "Wehrmacht" exhibition in Munich
</H1>
Several thousand demonstrators for and against the controversial
"Wehrmacht" exhibit are expected in Munich today. The NPD and other
extreme-rightist groups have called for a protest in downtown Munich
against the exhibition. Several other groups, among them SPD,
Buendnis 90/Greens, the German federation of unions, and religious
factions, called for counteracting demonstrations. Commanding
officers of the city of Munich and the local police force are
preparing for a busy Saturday. When the NPD's plans to organize a
demonstration against the exhibition "War of Destruction - Crimes of
the Wehrmacht from 1941 to 1944" became public, two counter events
were organized immediately. However, only the extreme-rightist group,
who was first to register their event, will be allowed to hold its
final proclamation on Munich's central square, the "Marienplatz."
On Friday, the Munich Greens were unsuccessful in their attempt to
obtain a court ruling allowing them to hold their closing event on
the "Marienplatz," as well. The county administrative court had
refused to issue them a license, arguing that parallel protests might
lead to severe safety infringements. Even so, the leftist and
rightist groups each held their final address within a distance of
less than one kilometer from one another. One thousand police officers
were dispatched to the downtown area. In order to ensure a peaceful
progression of the demonstrations, police were conducting random
controls at all streets and highways leading into Munich, beginning in the
early morning. All motorists were encouraged to bypass the city
whenever possible.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-01-5>
<H1>
Reports That Many Would Like to be Cloned
</H1>
According to the Scottish scientist Wilmut, several hundred
people have already requested to be cloned. Wilmut had recently
cloned the sheep "Dolly," that is, he had produced an exact copy of a
living being. In an interview with the news magazine "Der Spiegel,"
he said that he has already received many requests for human cloning,
especially from women. He has further received numerous
congratulatory letters for his research. However, Wilmut said, the
fear of such developments was very justified. Cloning of human beings
is prohibited by law in most countries, including Germany.

