<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-1>
<H1>
Defence Ministry not exempt from budget cuts
</H1>
The federal government is sticking to its guns on the controversial issue
of cuts to the defence budget. A spokesman for the Finance Ministry said,
following a meeting between Finance Minister Eichel, Defence Minister
Scharping, and Chancellor Schroeder, that there would be no change to the
financial planning decisions already made. Thus, the Defence Ministry can
expect 3.5 billion DM less next year alone. By the year 2003, the cuts
will amount to a savings of 19 billion DM. Defence Minister Scharping,
after a meeting of the defence committee in Berlin, announced his
willingness to cooperate in the plan. He did not provide details of his
future budget. He did emphasize, however, that the cornerstones of the
German Armed Forces' capabilities would not be threatened. He said that
the funds for the 'eurofighter' jet could not be cut, nor could army bases
be closed. Scharping also said there could be no question about abolishing
compulsory military duty.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-2>
<H1>
Foreign Ministry to close various missions abroad
</H1>
The Foreign Office apparently plans to close five embassies and twelve
general consulates next year as a result of the federal government's
austerity budget. The Foreign Office Secretary, Verheugen, announced the
affected countries and cities at a cabinet meeting in Berlin, according to
a report in the Berliner Zeitung newspaper. The report lists Burundi,
Sierra Leone, Niger, Papua-New Guinea, and Chad as the countries which
will no longer have permanent German diplomatic missions. The American
cities of Detroit and Seattle will lose their General Consulates, as will
several other cities around the world, including Alexandria, Innsbruck,
Zurich, Genoa, and Szczecin.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-3>
<H1>
Public health insurers pass programme against going over budget
</H1>
In the face of the debate over limiting the expenditures of the public
health insurance plans, the Federal Association of Public Health Insurers
(KBV) is considering delaying the prescription of certain medications. The
suggestion is contained in an 'emergency programme' which has been passed
by the KBV states' committee. It will be implemented if the insurers are
faced with exceeding the legally proscribed budget. It allows for the
creation of a waiting list for medications which are not, as it states, "a
matter of life or death". A prescription for such medications would then
be issued in the next budget year.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-4>
<H1>
Supposed "Number Two" of PKK caught
</H1>
A leading member of the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK), Soysal, has been
seized abroad and taken to Turkey. Turkish Prime Minister Ecevit has said
from Ankara that the man is the second-in-command of the out-lawed
organization. Turkish news agency reports indicate that Soysal was
captured by the Turkish Secret Service in Moldavia several weeks ago. The
PKK has said that Soysal is simply and rank-and-file member of the
organization. The Internal Affairs Ministry of North Rhine-Westphalia
reports that the man is in possession of German travel documents and that
he is a registered asylum-seeker.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-5>
<H1>
German Foreign Minister in Turkey
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Fischer has met with his Turkish counterpart,
Cem, in Istanbul. However, sources within the German delegation report
that they have not yet discussed Turkish candidacy for the EU, the death
sentence against PKK leader Ocalan, or the human rights situation in
Turkey. Fischer will also visit Ankara, where he will meet with the
Turkish human rights association, as well as Turkish President Demirel,
and Prime Minister Ecevit. Fischer said that he would like to eliminate
the element of mistrust from German-Turkish relations.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-6>
<H1>
Fischer and Mueller call for unity within Green Party
</H1>
Foreign Minister Fischer and Green Caucus Leader Mueller have called on
the members of their party to end their internal quarrels. Fischer told
the "Woche" newspaper that it was very important for the party to stop
tripping itself up. He said that a rational and efficient organization was
what was called for. Fischer also emphatically denied newspaper reports
that he was considering running for the leadership of the party. Mueller,
in the "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" newspaper, called upon members to think
about how the Greens could raise their profile under the conditions of the
federal coalition.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-21-7>
<H1>
Autobahn fee for transport trucks as of 2002
</H1>
Beginning in the year 2002, delivering goods via long stretches of the
autobahn highway system will become significantly more expensive.
Transport Minister Muentefering today announced the introduction of a fee
for transport trucks. He told "stern" newsmagazine that the longer the
stretch of the autobahn used, the more it will cost per kilometre. He said
the policy was not intended to let all the air out of the tires of
transport companies, but rather to set a clear signal. The German
Automobile Association, ADAC, welcomed the news. The Federal Association
of Transport Companies, meanwhile, has called for compensation in the form
of tax breaks if the autobahn fee should become reality.

