<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-1>
<H1>
Trittin charges that CDU and FDP are blocking each other
</H1>
The spokesperson for the leadership of the Green Coalition, Mr.
Trittin, charged the Coalition partners, the CDU and the FDP, with
blocking each other.  He said that it was impossible to exclude tax
increases, limit the new debt ceiling to 3 percent and introduce
the Euro, all at the same time.  The federal government would have
to make a decision in this matter here and now.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-2>
<H1>
CSU-district meetings in Swabia and Upper Franconia
</H1>
The head of the CSU, Mr. Waigel and the Minister President of
Bavaria, Mr. Stoiber, have demonstrated their unity in the face of
internal disagreements about the Euro and Bonn's budget problems.
As main speakers at the district meeting of the CDU in Swabia and
Upper Franconia, they avoided verbal confrontations.  Mr. Stoiber
emphasized that he and Mr. Waigel were in total agreement on
matters of stability.  The Federal Minister for Finance made a
similar statement.  Theo Waigel obviously enjoyed the minutes of
applause given to him by the approximately 200 CSU-delegates. Even
before he actually began his speech, Mr. Waigel referred briefly to
the supposed differences between him and Mr. Stoiber.  He cared
little about all that, Mr. Waigel said, and then began to go
through all the topics which had been the objects of controversy.
Concerning the Euro: As far as he was concerned, convergence was an
absolute priority; he was for clear criteria of stability and, he
continued, only one figure was contained in the treaty.
Postponement was not up for discussion, he added.  And then Mr.
Waigel also commented on the reevaluation of the gold reserves.
Only the timetable was a matter of disagreement between him and the
Federal Bank, he said, but as far as the evaluation itself was
concerned, he had always been in agreement with the
Federal Bank.  Internal policies also played a role in Mr.
Waigel's address.  The CDU would not allow a decontrol of drugs
like the one planned in Schleswig-Holstein.  And alluding to the
murder of seven-year-old Natalie, he remarked that the protection
of victims was to be deemed more important than the perpetrator's
claim on re-socialization. This was the exact tenor of his remarks.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-3>
<H1>
Mr. Henkel opposes preference of some parts of tax reform
</H1>
The president of the Federal Alliance of German Industry. Mr.
Henkel has expressed his opposition to any consideration of giving
preference to those areas of tax reform which would first place a
burden on businesses.  Mr. Henkel told the KOELNER EXPRESS that
even the original concept of the government would bring no relief
to businesses but be of benefit only to workers.  Still the model
had been supported because of its effect as a signal.  But if this
were to become a reform which would make the economy pay even more,
support might waver.  Mr. Henkel expressed his categorical
opposition to postponing the European monetary reform.  He
expressed the opinion that it had been a mistake to allow pressure
to establish the 3 percent limit to prevail in determining the debt
criterion.  He said it was better to attain 3.2 percent with sound
bookkeeping than to attain 3 percent with tricks.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-4>
<H1>
Architects' Convention fears for the future of the profession
</H1>
The German Architects' Convention fears that the future of the
profession will be endangered by the guidelines of the EU.  The
president of the group, Mr. Erler, told DEUTSCHLANDRADIO BERLIN
since, in the future, architects would be licensed to practice
their profession in all of Europe, there would be large
mergers of firms which would work internationally.  Mr. Erler
criticized that small firms would then no longer have a chance.  To
be sure, he continued the EU guidelines were pursuing the proper
goal but putting them into practice would be problematic.  He added
that the commission procedure would become more complicated in
direct ratio to the amount of detail contained in the rules stated
in national law.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-5>
<H1>
Kanther hopes to give up CDU chairmanship in Hesse
</H1>
The newspaper BILD AM SONNTAG reports that Minister of the Interior
Kanther hopes to be relieved from his post as chairman of the Hesse CDU.
Kanther plans to announce his decision to the state party board and party
county chairs of the Hesse CDU this coming Thursday.  At the same time,
Kanther plans to suggest that the party leaders elect the CDU
parliamentary group leader in the Hesse parliament, Mr. Koch, as the state
party chair and favored candidate for the Hesse state elections in the
spring of 1995.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-6>
<H1>
Arrest warrant issued for 19-year-old in Luebeck arson attack
</H1>
An arrest warrant has been issued for a 19-year-old man in the case of the
arson attack on the Luebeck church "Sankt Witzelinkirche."  Previously,
chief public prosecutor Mr. Schulz had announced that the young man was a
member of a group of five youths who have been questioned since Thursday.
During the course of the questioning, the suspicion of the man had
solidified.  News agencies report that the group of youths had already
caught the police's attention  during the night of the attack. Their hands
had been stained with paint when they had been stopped by the police.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-7>
<H1>
Michalczevski defeats Hill
</H1>
Darius Michalczevski is the first three-time boxing world champion in the
light-heavyweight weight class.  The 29-year-old professional boxer from
Hamburg defeated the American Virgil Hill yesterday night in Oberhausen.
With this victory, he secured his world championship title with the boxing
associations WBA and IBF.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-14-8>
<H1>
Becker out after Halle semifinals
</H1>
Boris Becker has not reached the finals in the lawn tournament in Halle,
Westphalia.  During the round of the final four, he was defeated by
Kavelnikov from Russia in two sets.

