<DOC de-news-1998-04-07-1>
<H1>
Unemployment rate at record level despite fall
</H1>
Unemployment in Germany is still at a record level, despite a recent fall.
Although almost 200,000 fewer unemployed were registered in March compared
with February, their number at 4.62 million is the highest ever recorded in
the month of March. The nationwide rate fell from 12.6 per cent in February
to 12.1 per cent in March. The rate is 10.0 per cent in the west and 20.6
per cent in east Germany. The President of the Federal Labour Agency,
Bernhard Jagoda, said that progress has continued to be made in the western
states, while the new states continue to decline. One cannot talk of a
reversal of the trend, however. The current fall in nationwide figures is
overwhelmingly due to the usual Spring upturn. Jagoda talked of an
unexpected fall in the unemployment figures. He said he expects a turn in
the labour market in the autumn. He reckons that the Federal Agency's
estimate of an annual average of 4.4 million unemployed is realistic.
According to the agency, for every 100 applicants there are only 66
training places available. Unemployment groups organised their third
protest action in several cities in parallel with the labour market
announcement. There were protests in front of labour offices, employers'
federations, party offices and banks, to demonstrate for more money and
jobs. The organisers, local unemployment groups and unions, estimated over
500,000 participants in 300 towns.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-07-2>
<H1>
FCC declares MP succession rule partly unconstitutional
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court has declared a special succession
regulation for retiring Members of Parliament for unconstitutional. The
ruling applies to the special cases in connection with directly elected
MPs. The Court decided that the successor of such a politician cannot be
drawn from the Land (state) list, if there is a surplus mandate in that
state. According to today's published decision, however, the previous
regulation is valid until the end of the legislative period this autumn.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-07-3>
<H1>
Alcohol advertising to be restricted
</H1>
The Federal Ministry for Health plans to restrict TV advertising of
alcohol. Statements by the German Advertising Council were confirmed on the
Sueddeutsche radio station.  A spokesperson for the Health Ministry said
that Minister Seehofer was looking for voluntary agreement on the issue.
From now on there should be no advertising of alcoholic drinks during
sports programmes. Children and young people should not get the impression
that sport does not go without alcohol.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-07-4>
<H1>
Inflation rate remains stable
</H1>
The inflation rate in Germany remained stable in March. According to the
Federal Statistical Office it amounted  to 1.1 per cent in March against
the previous year, and to 1.3 per cent compared with February. This was
mainly due to the falling price of petrol and heating fuel. Vegetables,
flowers, travel and telephones were also considerably cheaper.

