<DOC de-news-1997-09-27-1>
<H1>
Reduction of solidarity surcharge under discussion
</H1>
In an interview to the weekly paper 'Sonntag Aktuell', Baden-Wuerttembergs
State Premier Erwin Teufel (CDU) said that a reduction of the solidarity
surcharge was not a foregone conclusion at all. In his opinion, the
Eastern German states will have to be subsidized for years to come. He
deems it difficult to decide whether a reduction of the solidarity
surcharge at this time would be a responsible action. Much would depend on
the new States' agreeing with the reduction. Thuringia's State Premier
Vogel reaffirmed his stand that a reduction of the surcharge as put
forward mainly by FDP would only be acceptable if sufficient compensation
for tax losses were offered. The Union politician told the Chemnitz daily
'Freie Presse' that he would never agree to a reduction of the surcharge
without some financial compensation. The chairman of Saxony-Anhalt's CDU,
Bergner, speaking in 'Deuschlandradio Berlin,' called attention to the
fact that the solidarity surcharge reduction had been part of the overall
tax reform plan recently shelved. He warned strongly against now producing
a patched up substitute.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-27-2>
<H1>
Schaeuble counts on passing Pension Reform Law before end of 1997
</H1>
Wolfgang Schaeuble, leader of the CDU/CSU faction in the
Bundestag, believes that the Pension Reform may be approved before year's
end and be enacted in 1998. Speaking to the Muehlacker
(Baden-Wuerttemberg) CDU district party conference, Schaeuble said that
this reform did not depend on approval by the SPD-dominated Bundesrat. He
was positive that pension payments would not be reduced but increases
might become somewhat slower. Pensioners should prepare for no increase
next year. Civil Servants' and Transport Workers' Union OeTV believe that
the pension system can only be sustained by way of a basic pension
supported through tax funds.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-27-3>
<H1>
Metal and Chemical Workers' Unions favour renewal of labour pact
</H1>
After Metal Workers' Union boss Zwickel, Chemical Workers' Union chairman
Schmoldt has also come out in favor of renewal of the labour pact
(Buendnis fuer Arbeit). Talking to the Hannover daily 'Neue Presse,'
Schmoldt said it would be feasible for Federal Government, employers and
unions to meet as early as next week. Reduction of indirect wage cost,
financial support for social security and improvement of the law on senior
citizens' part time work should be on the agenda. The Bonn coalition just
could not go on procrastinating talks with labour unions and remembering
them just six month before Election Day.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-27-4>
<H1>
Geissler for better treatment of German-born children of resident aliens
</H1>
The vice-leader of the Union Parties' faction in the Bundestag, Heiner
Geissler, launched an appeal to coalition parties in favor of action
to bring about, as soon as possible, legal instruments for better treatment
of German born children of aliens living in Germany. Talking to
'Deutschlandfunk' radio, Geissler said that the integration into society
of hundreds of thousands of young aliens must needs be advanced.
Otherwise, they might shop around for their identity and fall prey to
fundamentalist ideas. Geissler came out for a free Bundestag vote on the
planned overhaul of Germany's nationality laws. FDP general secretary
Westerwelle affirmed to 'Bayrischer Rundfunk' radio that in his opinion
the coalition parties would come to a consensual agreement in spite of
strong prevailing doubts.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-27-5>
<H1>
Arbitration talks in Metal Industry have run aground
</H1>
Arbitration talks over part-time work for senior citizens
in the metal sector seem to have run aground. There was no agreement in
sight up to this afternoon. The representatives of employers and unions
again and again held separate caucus conferences. The talks  have been
going on ever since Wednesday, and are considered to be 'very intricate'.

