<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-1>
<H1>
Celebrations on the Day of German Unity
</H1>
Celebrations of the seventh anniversary of German Unity began
with a service in the Stuttgart Stiftskirche (Collegiate Church). Bishop
Kasper from Rottenburg delivered a sermon in which he stressed that regained
unity was a chance for a new beginning.

<P>
On the seventh anniversary of German Unity, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
appealed to the German people to fervently strive for a unified Europe. At
the main ceremony in Stuttgart, Kohl stated that many people in Eastern
Europe are particularly counting on Germany in this respect. The
Chancellor spoke before 1,700 guests in Wuerttemberg State Theater,
promising continued efforts in the reconstruction of the new Federal
States. He called upon all Germans in East and West not to give up
the goal of national unity, "It is crucial that we Germans, throughout the
country, work together for a better future. All of us, in both East and
West, can coexist in freedom and unity. We can join together in the name
of  peace and freedom to build our future in the twenty-first century.
History has brought us a valuable gift, in which we Germans should
rejoice. We should be sincerely grateful and never forget those who have
helped us as we found our way."

<P>
Baden-Wuerttemberg State Premier Erwin Teufel called the Reunification of
Germany a stroke of Luck of History. At the ceremony, he stated that the
West must continue in its efforts to assist the new Federal States as they
become more independent. Mr Teufel continued, "The Reunification of Germany
on October 3, 1990 is a happy event, a stroke of luck of our history, a
great achievement of all who have been, and continue to be, politically
responsible. We Germans have a reason to be grateful and a reason to
rejoice. Joy is an emotion that is not widely expressed in our country,
an attitude seldom maintained. But joy about the positive aspects of our
history can be productive in dealing with the enormous problems of today
which bring internal as well as external challenges."

<P>
Former president of the United States George Bush praised German citizens
in both East and West who made reunification a reality. At the Stuttgart
ceremony, the former US president stated that it was the people that began
this great transformation. He also applauded the good relations between
Germany and the United States.

<P>
German Federal President Roman Herzog hosted a reception in the "Neue
Schloss"
palace after the ceremony. Delegations from all of the 16 German Federal
States
were invited.

<P>
In addition to the official ceremonies on the Day of German Unity, there
was a festival in Stuttgart which several hundred thousand people were
expected to attend. Four concert stages and other cultural events
continued until evening. The high point of the festival was a performance by
the rock group Scorpions at the "Neue Schloss" palace in Stuttgart.

<P>
There was also a celebration of the Day of German Unity in Berlin. Over
3,000 participants marched through Berlin's Brandenburg Gate in a parade
seen by almost 250,000 people.

<P>
The main festivities occurred without incident. The same can be said
about the events in Stuttgart. Even an anti-unity demonstration with over
1,200 protesters from all of Germany was conducted peacefully.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-2>
<H1>
Conflict between FDP and Kurt Biedenkopf
</H1>
The proposed reduction of the solidarity contribution has a strong
dispute between the FDP and Saxon State Premier Kurt Biedenkopf, CDU.
Biedenkopf accused the Liberals, the main proponents of reductions in
the solidarity contribution, of not having any idea about what goes on in
East Germany. FDP politicians Mr Solms and Mr Westerwelle defended the
reduction of solidarity supplements and expressed doubt about economic
professor Biedenkopf's competence in the area of economics.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-3>
<H1>
The Hinze Kidnapping Case
</H1>
An attempt to pay ransom for kidnapped Matthias Hinze has
failed. The Potsdam police stated that the mother of the twenty-year-old
kidnap victim did not understand on which street the ransom drop-off was
to occur, as the kidnapper spoke in broken German. The parents have urged
the kidnappers to recontact them. Matthias Hinze has been held captive for
almost three weeks.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-4>
<H1>
Work Opportunities for Non-EU Foreigners Should Be Limited
</H1>
Work opportunities for foreigners from countries not in the EU
should be limited, according to a National German Radio report. A special
committee of the European Union will reach an agreement in conjunction
with the Employment Ministry. The proposal should be made into law next
week. One of the main objectives is to drastically reduce the number of
seasonal workers from non-EU countries.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-5>
<H1>
RTL Television Awards Presented
</H1>
The RTL Television Awards were presented at a gala event in the
Berlin Theatre "Theater des Westens". Corinne Hafusch and Mathias Habich
were awarded Golden Lions in the best actor category. The ZDF show "Wetten
dass..." ("Let's make a bet..") was declared best show. "Bruder Esel"
("Brother Blockhead") with Dieter Pfaff in the lead role won the title best
TV serial. The judges gave the award for best TV host to Harald Schmidt for
"The Harald Schmidt Show."

<DOC de-news-1997-10-03-6>
<H1>
Numerous Traffic Jams on German Highways
</H1>
On the Day of German Unity there were numerous traffic
jams on German highways. Hundreds of thousands people took advantage of
the long weekend to go on short trips and excursions. Police added
up all the pile-ups moving at a snail's pace or being at a complete
standstill and reported a total of 450km (280 miles) of backed-up traffic.
Traffic conditions were particularly chaotic on routes to the south. The A3
Wuerzburg-Frankfurt Route, The A5 Frankfurt-Karlsruhe and Route A8,
Stuttgart-Munich, were particularly affected. It took until late afternoon
for the traffic situation to improve.

