<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-1>
<H1>
Government's pension policy under criticism
</H1>

There has been increased criticism of the government's current
pension policy. The president of the Federation of German Industry,
Hans-Olaf Henkel, said that the Government present policy was a disaster.
Federal Labor Minister Norbert Bluem's proposal that the national pension
fund be subsidized by increasing value-added tax by one percent would
have fatal consequences, said Mr. Henkel. He continued that there was
also very little room for maneuver for the urgently needed tax reform.
The National Union of Employees has also called for significant changes
to the tax laws.  Mr. Freitag, a member of the Federal Board, said in
Hamburg said that extraneous social insurance insurance benefits should
be financed from other sources and that the so-called 610 mark jobs
should also be liable for pension insurance deductions.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-2>
<H1>
Protestant Church synod meets in Wetzlar
</H1>

The synod of the Protestant Church of Germany began with a
church service in the Wetzlar Cathedral on Sunday morning. In the
afternoon, Chancellor Helmut Kohl spoke a few words of greeting to the
church assembly, emphasizing the importance of the church in Germany's
future.  He cautioned against stopping religious education classes at
schools.  Without directly mentioning Brandenburg as an example (i.e.
Life shaping ethics/religion as a school subject), he talked about the
offensive against the religious upbringing of children.  He said that
young people should have experience of how religious belief is lived.
<P>
Afterwards, the retiring chairman, Bishop Engelhard, presented his last
report.  The 65 year old will not be standing for reelection due to his
age. The new appointments for the board and its chairmen have been set
for Tuesday.  The synod, which will convene until Friday, represents
about 28 million Protestant Christians in Germany. Bishop Engelhard
called for reform in the church.  He also criticized the fact that the
Protestant Church was split into Lutheran, Reform and Union factions. He
also said that the differences in size in the state church bodies was a
problem and called for this to be reorganized by the Protestant Church
governing body.  Bishop Engelhard continued that the changes in law
regarding bugging devices to monitor individuals endangered the freedom
of religion, particularly in connection with religious confession and
information confided to priests.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-3>
<H1>
Government's move to Berlin to cost less than expected
</H1>

According to Klaus Toepfer, Minister of Building and Construction, the
total cost of relocating the government from Bonn to Berlin will be less
than expected.  Mr. Toepfer said in a radio interview that he expects the
relocation to cost about 18.5 billion marks which did not exceed 20
billion marks originally forecast.  He said that this was due to the fact
that the exchange of jobs between Berlin and Bonn is going well and that
fewer housing units apartments would thus need to be built. Mr. Toepfer
also said that he was against postponing the move, particularly as it was
a fallacy that this would result in savings.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-4>
<H1>
Bavarian Greens hold state party conference
</H1>

The Bavarian Greens ended their state party conference in
Rosenheim by discussing their program for the state elections in 1998.
The main concern of the party was to maintain a balance between economy
and ecology as well as to combat unemployment.  All 250 delegates also
supported cutting religious classes at schools by one hour.  They
proposed that a mandatory subject should be introduced with a
multi-cultural and interreligious emphasis.  The Greens called for their
party to show creativity and courage to bring about unconventional
solutions. They said that it was not enough to rely on market forces
alone with the current problems regarding globalization and the strained
economic situation.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-5>
<H1>
Hundt: unemployment levels will improve
</H1>

The President of the Federal Employee Association, Mr. Hundt, said
that he is of the opinion that the worst is over as regards the all-time
high in the unemployment level. He continued that he was surprised and
disappointed that the latest scientific forecast talk about an increase
in unemployment.  He said that he himself had the impression from the
many talks he has had with businesses that this was not the case.  Mr.
Hundt strictly opposes the abolition of 610 mark jobs saying that
businesses need to be flexible. He is also against setting quotas
limiting the number jobs exempted from social insurance deductions. He
said that this would only result in increased administrative costs.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-6>
<H1>
Introduction of stricter supervision in Bundeswehr
</H1>

Inspector Willmann has introduced stricter supervision in the
Bundeswehr (German Armed Services) in reaction to the  latest scandalous
right-extremist videos.  The tabloid "Welt am Sonntag" quoted a document
issued by the Inspector to Bundeswehr commanders. This document said that
it was necessary to also supervise soldiers' barracks outside of working
hours. and that conscripts engaging in excessive right-wing or violent
activities needed to be dealt with by the district attorney.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-7>
<H1>
Puschmann believes social peace is at stake
</H1>

The president of the German Caritas Association (Catholic
Welfare Association), Mr. Puschmann, believes that social peace could be
endangered due to the current education situation.  He stated in a
newspaper interview that a solution for the youth and long-term
unemployment is very important for Germany's future.  The social network
could not be allowed to become weaker, he said. He continued that we have
to be careful that people who really need help are not let down.  He
described the discussion on the misuse of welfare benefits as dangerous
because it turns people against each other and that there was no
large-scale misuse of welfare in Germany. According to Mr. Puschmann, tax
fraud was a far more serious offense and should be persecuted as such.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-8>
<H1>
Red license plates to become cheaper
</H1>

The red license plates used for the transfer of ownership of
private vehicles will cost five marks less from 1998.  According to the
tabloid "Bild am Sonntag", these license plates will no longer have to be
returned to the traffic office after being used.  The new license plates
will have an expiry date instead.  According to the newspaper, the
license plates will be valid for about three to five days.  Traffic
minister Matthias Wissmann says that this should save up to 10 million
marks.


<DOC de-news-1997-11-02-9>
<H1>
Colonia Dignidad searched again
</H1>

About 200 police men have again searched Colonia
Dignidad, the controversial German settlement in the south of Chile. The
leader Schaefer against whom an  international warrant of arrest has been
issued was not found on the premises.  The 76 year old has been accused
of child rape.  Reports from Chile radios state that the police did
however found a series of tunnels in the area  of the area of the
settlement.


