<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-1>
<H1>
Last day of Christian-Democrat party congress
</H1>
As the two-day CDU party congress in Hanover wrapped up, Chancellor Helmut
Kohl urged the about 1000 members to show unanimity. The party had to go
with its well-tried fighting spirit into the upcoming arguments. Kohl
called on the delegates to convey the party congress decisions on taxation
and education politics to the citizens. Earlier, the main motion by the
executive regarding the tax reform was passed with only one opposing vote.
The motion stipulates that the lowest income tax rate should be reduced to
under 20 per cent and the highest rate to about 35 per cent. Finance
Minister Theo Waigel and head of CDU/CSU faction Wolfgang Schaeuble called
upon the delegates to find the courage for unpopular decisions in view of
the increasing globalisation. The two politicians accused the
Social-Democrats of preventing important savings by their blockade policy
in the Bundesrat, the upper house of parliament. Education Minister Juergen
Ruettgers re-iterated the government's aim to offer each youth a job
training position in future. The congress passed a motion to favour
companies that provide job training by awarding contracts or subsidies. The
CDU disapproves a fee for companies that do not provide job training.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-2>
<H1>
Collective bargaining for metal industry and engineering stuck
</H1>
The collective bargaining in Sulzbach near Frankfurt on Main for workers in
the metal and engineering industries got stuck. Already after one and a
half hours of talks the delegates of employers and workers receded to
discuss their strategies. Main topic of the summit meeting was sickness
payments. Both sides strive for a package deal to include wage increases
for next year.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-3>
<H1>
Federation of German Industries calls for welfare reform
</H1>
The Federation of German Industries (BDI) has called for a fundamental
reform of the welfare system. BDI president Hans-Olaf Henkel said in
Duesseldorf plans of Health Minister Norbert Bluem were too cautious and
short-falling. Henkel suggested to replace the current welfare system by
basic welfare and the possibility for additional individual provisions. At
the same time Henkel called for a joint fight against unemployment.
Everyone had to do their part to create another 2 million jobs until the
turn of the millennium.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-4>
<H1>
Kinkel looks positively on his visit to China
</H1>
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel thinks chances are good to broaden political
and economic ties with the People's Republic of China. After talks with
China's President Jiang Zemin and Prime Minister Li Peng Kinkel said today
at noon in Beijing the perspectives for the German economy, e.g. in
infrastructure and environment, were very favourable. He said he had also
addressed human rights violations. In spite of continuing differences in
opinion the resentments between Germany and China have been left behind
according to both sides. Industry representatives accompanying the German
Foreign Minister were also content with the results of their talks in China.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-5>
<H1>
Mayor of Pforzheim to be expelled from Social-Democrats
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg SPD wants to exclude the Pforzheim Mayor, Mr.
Becker, from the party. Becker had announced his candidacy as an
independent for the second ballot for the Mayor's office in Stuttgart. The
party's executive board reacted by giving notice of party exclusion
procedures and suspending his membership rights. State-SPD
secretary-general Maurer called on Becker to leave the party voluntarily.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-6>
<H1>
Power companies must feed power generated from renewable energy sources
</H1>
Public utilities must continue buying power generated from renewable
resources and pay certain minimum prices. This was at the core of a ruling
the Federal Court in Karlsruhe handed down this afternoon. The court's
industrial senate found the respective regulation in the power resource law
was constitutional. This means that the owner of two small hydro plants in
the Black Forest is entitled to a retroactive payment of the price
difference. The federal judges ruled that the legislative was entitled to
oblige the monopoly utilities to buy power from certain producers. Public
utility companies had a special responsibility to consider the protection
of resources, climate, and environment for energy production.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-7>
<H1>
Law-suit about embezzlements at DG-Bank comes to an end
</H1>
After almost three years the proceedings about embezzlement at the DG-Bank
have ended today. The main defendant Friedrich Steil was accused of having
used the bond money of clients for private deals. Former co-workers of
Steil have also been accused. Due to the risky business with millions of
German marks the DG-Bank had come into serious trouble. The court found
Steil guilty of fraudulent conversion in 28 cases and sentenced him to five
and half years jail. The three co-defendants received suspended sentences.
Steil's deputy received 24 months, two managing clerks each 18 months. They
were found guilty of criminal enrichment of DM40 million by illegal private
transactions.
The proceedings originally set out to investigate the so-called French
Deals between 1987 and 1989. The four bank managers and one bonds dealer
had engaged in spot transactions at a nominal value of between DM6bn and
DM8bn. Their trading partners were 25 French banks. The five accused had
allegedly guaranteed the banks to buy back the papers at fixed conditions,
although at costs of DG-Bank. When the time came to buy back the papers the
rates had dropped dramatically. DG-Bank suffered losses of DM800 million.
The top bank tripped and could only be saved with a lot of effort. The
French Deals complex had been suspended at short notice because, as the
judge explained repeatedly in his verdict, one of the expert witnesses was
biased and to clear up the crime was in extreme disproportion to the
required effort.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-8>
<H1>
Increase of sewage and water fees possible
</H1>
The Council of German Districts predicts increases of water and sewage fees
by 10 percent if the Federal Fiscal Court rules that municipal waste
disposal is subject to value-added tax. The council's president-elect, Mr.
Landsberg, said in an interview with the daily Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung in
individual cases increases of up to 20 percent were possible. Landsberg
pointed out that although the ruling would apply to waste disposal in the
first place, sewage disposal could not be handled differently for fiscal
purposes.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-9>
<H1>
Retail sector hopes for a small returns increase
</H1>
After a bad start this year the German retail sector now hopes for small
gains. The president of the Federal Federation of German Retailers, Mr.
Franzen, said averaged over the whole year the sector would be ever so
slightly in the black. He is hoping for good Christmas business and counts
on longer business hours starting November. A poll by the federation showed
that about 75 percent of the retailers want to take advantage of the new
shopping hour law and keep their shops open longer. Not all businesses,
however, will open their shops for the maximum allowed time. Franzen
expects that in the long run only one third of the businesses will be able
to cope with the maximum shop opening time. In many places, shop owners
have already agreed on core hours, reported Franzen. Yet, Franzen
concludes: "The road to longer shopping hours is free. Starting 1 November
the clocks in the German retail sector will be changed. This is to be taken
literally." The federation president demanded that local public transport
companies, too, change the timetables of trams, underground trains, and
busses. Here he still feels a wall of resistance. Franzen is also convinced
that the police must change their duty schedules. Especially now as night
falls earlier public safety must be assured for the clients.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-22-10>
<H1>
Stuttgart Tennis Tournament results
</H1>
Michael Stich and Nicola Skiefer have both reached the second round today.
Stich won his first game today against Paul Harhuis from the Netherlands
7-5 and 6-1. Skiefer beat Herman Guy, Argentina, 6-3, 6-0. Marc-Kevin
Goellner from Neuss, however, was eliminated by Australian Marc Woodfort
who played 4-6 and 1-6.

