<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-1>
<H1>
Social, justice, and internal politics debated in Bundestag
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder defended the government's social policies against
opposition critics. During the social policy debate in the Bundestag in
Bonn, he said the cabinet had succeeded, in a short amount of time, in
redressing the social misalignments left behind by the previous
government. At the same time he announced further tax relief for families.
Bavarian State Premier Stoiber however, spoke about the unclear. FDP
leader Gerhard criticized the withdrawal of reforms to the social security
system. Parliament also took up the topic of European politics. Chancellor
Schroeder stressed that the cabinet had provided a continuity to foreign
policy despite completely new conditions. Foreign Minister Fischer accused
Bavarian State Premier Stoiber of making exaggerated demands in connection
with the EU agricultural reform plan, "Agenda 2000". The CSU leader
(Stoiber) was critical of the EU planned structual policy reform, saying
it would lead to massive unemployment. The budget of Justice Minister
Daeubler-Gmelin was discussed in a plenary session and at the time of this
report the delegates were debating the budget of Interior Minister Schily.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-2>
<H1>
Another avalanche in the Paznaun valley as rescue operations continue
</H1>
Rescue operations in the wake of an avalanche at the Austrian ski resort
of Galtuer continue in spite of bad weather. Rescue forces and soldiers
supported by (specially trained) avalanche dogs are searching for buried
victims. There is little hope remaining for the almost 30 missing persons.
So far 16 bodies have been recovered. According to the Foreign Office in
Bonn, at least 8 German vacationers have perished. 17 persons, some
heavily injured, were rescued. They, like 400 other tourists, were flown
out in helicopters. The airlift had to be broken off in the afternoon on
account of renewed snowfall. In Mathon, located between Galtuer and
Ischgl, another avalanche occurred just a few hours ago. 6 people are
missing in the masses of snow. 3 persons were able to be rescued according
an Army spokesperson. Both Galtuer and Ischgl are cut off from the outside
world.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-3>
<H1>
OeTV union expands warning strikes
</H1>
Two days before the next round of wage negotiations for civil servants,
the unions have expanded the number of warning strikes. According the
Public Service and Transport Union (OeTV) approximately 20,000 employees
across Germany have temporarily laid down their work. Most affected is
local public transit. Through this campaign, the unions want to pressure
employers into making an offer. The OeTV and the German Employees Union
(DAG) expect the offer to be similar in outline to the wage agreement
reached by the metal industry.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-4>
<H1>
Construction industry wage negotiations come to fruitless end
</H1>
The first round of wage negotiations for the approximately 800,000
employees of the West German construction industry came to a fruitless end
this evening. From Mainz, a spokesperson for the trade union said the next
set of meetings should take place by the end of March or beginning of
April. The builders union (IG Bau) forwent any concrete wage demands.
Instead, according to union secretary-general Wiesehuegel, they would like
the introduction of a supplementary pension as well as higher minimum
wages. The negotiator for the employers, Bauer, warned against additional
burdens on the construction industry.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-5>
<H1>
Kurdish and Turkish prisoners on hunger strikes
</H1>
In Berlin, several thousand people conducted a funeral procession in
memory of the three Kurds who were shot and killed at the Israeli
consulate last week. Numerous participants indicated their solidarity with
the jailed leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), Abdullah Ocalan,
through chants and banners. The event was largely peaceful. A definitive
inquiry by the Israeli authorities concluded the Israeli soldiers acted in
self-defense. Additionally (according to the Israeli authorities) the
soldiers did not shoot blindly into the crowd but aimed into the air or at
the legs of Kurds. According to the Legal Aid Association of Cologne,
approximately 100 Kurdish and Turkish prisoners in German prisons have
gone on hunger strikes in protest of Ocalan's arrest.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-24-6>
<H1>
No talks between CDU/CSU and government about citizenship laws
</H1>
The divide between the parties of the ruling coalition and CDU/CSU on the
subject of citizenship laws continues to widen. Chancellor Schroeder
rejected one-on-one talks with CDU/CSU. Schroeder said he won't talk to
those who spread intolerance, with reference to the signature campaign of
the CDU/CSU against dual citizenship. The Green party also accused the
CDU/CSU of stirring up hatred of foreigners. Word within the coalition,
however, is thatthe SPD and Greens have adjusted to the fact that a
general acceptance of dual citizenship for the purpose of naturalizing
foreigners cannot be achieved.

