<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-1>
<H1>
CSU document on foreign nationals comes in for criticism
</H1>
The document produced by the CSU Bundestag group on policy towards
foreign nationals who live in Germany has come in for criticism from
opposition parties and the FDP. Hirsch, an FDP Bundestag deputy, said
that the proposal that foreigners should be forced to learn German
could well serve to poison the atmosphere in the country. Another FDP
deputy, former Justice Minister Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, said that
not even the current election campaign could justify taking on the
arguments of right-wing organisations. An SPD politician,
Sonntag-Wohlgast, said that the document was full of crude populist
slogans. At their meeting in Kloster in Upper Franconia, the CSU group
had said that foreign nationals who are living in Germany should try
harder to integrate themselves into German society. The group's
president, Glos, laid special emphasis on the demand that those who
live in Germany on a long-term basis should have to prove that they
can speak German.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-2>
<H1>
Federal cabinet agrees 1999 budget
</H1>
Despite criticism from the opposition, the Federal Cabinet has
unanimously accepted Finance Minister Waigel's proposed budget for
1999. The Budget includes plans for expenditure to rise by 0.4% to DM
465.3 billion next year and for new borrowing to reach DM 56.2
billion. Both the CDU/CSU and the FDP described the budget as evidence
of a solid economic policy. Oskar Lafontaine, the leader of the SPD,
described it as a devastating final balance for Kohl's government,
saying that unemployment is expected to be 3.9 million by the year
2000, whereas, up until recently, Kohl was promising to halve the
number of unemployed.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-3>
<H1>
Atomic waste transportation accident in Magdeburg
</H1>
An accident involving containers carrying atomic waste occurred this
morning at a railway freight station in Magdeburg-Rothensee during the
loading process. A police spokesman explained that a crane had ripped
a hole of around 60 cm in length into one of the containers, but that
the actual receptacles for the low-level radioactive waste, which were
inside the container, were not damaged. According to the Federal
Ministry for the Environment, no radioactivity escaped. The containers
are on their way to the nuclear disposal site in Morsleben, and, as
the security measures have now been lifted, the transportation is due
to continue.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-4>
<H1>
Saxony's Intelligence Agency: NPD acting as rallying point
</H1>
In an interview with the Chemnitz newspaper 'Freie Presse', Eckehardt
Dietrich, the head of Saxony's State Intelligence Agency has described
the extreme right-wing political party NPD as a 'rallying point for
the whole right-wing spectrum', including potentially violent young
people and members of banned neo-nazi organisations such as the
'Viking Youth' and the FAP. He said that the NPD is trying to present
itself to the outside as an electable political party, but this only
shows that its members have learnt to bite their lips rather than
shout slogans. The NPD planned a demonstration in Chemnitz on
Saturday, but it has been banned.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-5>
<H1>
Government recommends careful planning against 'millennium bug'
</H1>
The Federal Government has issued an urgent recommendation that
emergency plans should be drawn up to cope with possible computer
crashes at the change over from 1999 to the year 2000. The joint
report, produced by several ministries, suggests, amongst other
measures, a ban on holidays for computer experts. It also recommends
that small businesses should seek support from regional Chambers of
Commerce, and says that above all old computers are at risk of
crashing. Private individuals should also be on their guard, as many
items, such as video recorders and cars, include 'hidden software'
which may not be ready for the millennium.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-08-6>
<H1>
International contact group calls for cease-fire in Kosovo
</H1>
The international contact group has called on Serbia and the
Kosovo-Albanians to instigate an immediate cease-fire so that talks
can be held over possible autonomy for the area, currently a province
of Serbia. The representatives of the contact group agreed a secret
plan for the future status of the province at a meeting in Bonn.
According to Foreign Minister Kinkel, the plan is to be sent
confidentially to the two sides in the conflict. Despite the worsening
situation in Kosovo, Bavaria deported another 58 Kosovo-Albanian
refugees to Belgrade on Wednesday.

