<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-1>
<H1>
Discussion concerning an Increase in Value-added-Tax
</H1>
The discussion concerning an increase in the value-added-tax
continues. After remarks made by Chancellor Kohl that the valueadded-tax has to be increased, the Opposition's reaction was not slow
in coming.  Criticisms of such plans came from the SPD on Saturday.
The head of the SPD, Mr. Oskar Lafontaine, opposes raising the valueadded-tax in the course of the planned tax reform.  Mr. Lafontaine
stated during an interview, "We want to lower the taxes which benefit
social programs, but this does not imply that general consumption
other than the use of energy is to be taxed at a higher rate."  On
Friday, Federal Chancellor Kohl had called the increase unavoidable.
Only with such an increase, he had stated, could a balanced
relationship between direct and indirect taxes be established.
Deputy CDU-head, Mr. Christoph Bergner supported the Chancellor's
view.  Mr. Bergner called financing the tax reform without an
increase in the value-added-tax an illusion.  Bavaria's Minister of
Finance, Mr. Erwin Huber, agrees.  The CSU-politician stated that an
additional burden on consumption made absolute economic sense.
According to the intentions of the Social Democrats, the tax reform
is to help those with low or middle incomes.  The SPD calls for a
decrease in the entire income tax rate system; only then would there
be no objection against lowering the highest income tax rate, Mr
Lafontaine stated.  The Coalition wants to lower the highest tax
rate to below 40% but does not want to touch the tax rate for low and
middle incomes.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-2>
<H1>
Thyssen-Head Plans to Issue Complaint about Arrest
</H1>
Thyssen-Head Mr. Vogel plans to make a complaint about the
warrant issued for his arrest.  In an interview with DER SPIEGEL,
which was published on Saturday, Mr. Vogel stated that he saw no
reason for taking him to court.  He said that the files of the
prosecutors did not reveal even a shred of new evidence.   Along with
other Thyssen-managers, the head of Thyssen had been placed under
arrest for a short period of time.  The prosecutor's office in Berlin
charges him and his managers with cheating the fiduciary out of 73
million Marks in the disposition of a former DDR-business.  Three
years ago, proceedings had been temporarily dropped after an
out-of-court settlement.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-3>
<H1>
Distribution of Newly Arrived Evacuees Effective
</H1>
According to Bonn's assessment, the distribution of newly arrived
evacuees throughout the Federal Republic has clearly served to reduce
tension since the implementation of the residence assignment law.
The federal deputy charged with matters of evacuees, Mr.
Waffenschmid, told the dpa that the evacuees, most of them Russo-
Germans, had stayed in the federal states to which they had been
assigned since the new law was implemented on March 1.  The law
provides for considerable reductions in assimilation subsidies for
such evacuees who arbitrarily move to a different state during their
first two years in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-4>
<H1>
Demonstration by Republikaner Commemorating Building of Wall
</H1>
Several dozen members of the right-extremist Republikaner
paraded through the Thuringian city Suhl as part of their
demonstration to commemorate the anniversary of the construction of
the wall.   Accompanied by a large number of police officers and
approximately 60 counter-demonstrators, their action was generally
peaceful.  On the Platz der Einheit [Unity Plaza], the speeches of
the Republikaner concerning the construction of the wall in 1961 were
drowned out by the whistles of young people.  The demonstration of
the Republikaner had only been sanctioned two days ago by the upper
administrative court in Weimar after a negative decision had been
appealed.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-5>
<H1>
Peaceful Demonstration against Atomic Energy
</H1>
Opponents of atomic energy peacefully demonstrated on Saturday in
Arhaus in the West-Muenster district against the expansion of
intermediate atomic waste storage sites.  They were accompanied by a
large number of police officers.  The demonstrators demanded that
intermediate storage facilities be prevented from becoming final
storage facilities.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-6>
<H1>
Red Cross Plans Return of Bosnian Refugees Beginning October First
</H1>
The president of the German Red Cross, Mr. Ibsen, expects that the
return of Bosnian refugees will begin with a large number of them on
October first.  Individuals without relatives, couples without
children and parents whose children already live in Bosnia should be
leaving Germany from that date on and return to their homeland.  The
president of the German Red Cross expressed his regret that donations
for Bosnia had been decreased considerably during the last six
months.  But the aid given by the Red Cross could not be financed by
donations alone.  The German Red Cross, Mr. Ibsen continued, depended
on supplementary payments by the European Union, the Office for
Foreign Affairs or the Ministry for Economic Aid to Developing
Countries.  Presumably, a total of 15 million Marks would be needed
this year.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-10-7>
<H1>
The Weather
</H1>
Few, generally thin, high clouds, also dry.  During the second half
of the day, strong rain clouds originating in the west and bringing
about some heavy thunderstorms.  Highs 26-31 degrees C. [79-89
degrees F].  Long range forecast: changing, often densely overcast
with showers or thunderstorms with a resulting drop in temperatures.

