<DOC de-news-1998-11-19-1>
<H1>
"Low-pay-jobs"/Reduction of contributions after April 1,1999
</H1>
According to Chancellor Schroeder in the future the threshold
for the so called "Low-pay-jobs" will be DM 620/month. This
will also be the case in the former East German states where up
to now the threshold has been DM 520. The chancellor added that
the current 20% comprehensive tax will fall away and in its place
10% of the gross monthly incomes will be withheld for health
insurance and 12% for pension insurance. The employees will not
however, receive these social-insurance benefits. Schroeder
stated that a reduction in pension insurance contributions will
occur on April 1, 1999 when the new regulations on "Low-pay jobs"
come into force. Speakers for the Union and FDP reproached the
government for bookkeeping tricks. The new model will neither
prevent the abuse of the 620 DM jobs nor contribute to help the
working poor. Others called the process confusing and chaotic.
The labor unions declared themselves as skeptical to negative.
The middle class was clearly relieved. The SPD faction wants to
confer over the new regulations

<DOC de-news-1998-11-19-2>
<H1>
German participation with NATO-protection forces in Macedonia
</H1>
The Lower House of parliament approved with an overwhelming
majority German participation in the NATO -protection forces in
Kosovo thereby allowing the stationing of up to 250 additional
German soldiers in Macedonia. In the preceding debate Foreign
Minister Fischer stressed that it is not about a military
operation but more to do with the protection of the unarmed
Approximately 2000 observers, including 200
Germans, are suppose to oversee the withdrawal of the Yugoslavian
army and the Serbian special police from Kosovo. In the past
week the Lower House had already approved German military
participation in the aerial surveillance. As a result of these
two parliamentary actions approximately 800 Germans will be
in action in Macedonia and Kosovo. Meanwhile the NATO Ambassadors
at the EU in Brussels expressed their alarm over the security
situation in Kosovo. Since the beginning of November 23, 1998
there have been repeated violent incidents on the part of both
sides which could destabilize the negotiated cease-fire and
endanger the inspection function of the OSZE.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-19-3>
<H1>
Introduction of eco tax delayed 3 months
</H1>
Due to Chancellor Schroeder's announced postponement of the reduction in
pension contributions, the introduction of the eco
tax will also be delayed for 3 months. Green party leader
Schlauch told the news agency dpa that he had received assurances
of this from the Finance Minister and from SPD party-whip Struck.
According to the original Red-Green draft of the bill the
introduction of the eco tax was scheduled for January 1, 1999.
Schlauch stressed that his party had not agreed that the
encumbrance of the eco tax would come into effect before relief
through the pension regulations.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-19-4>
<H1>
Dispute over commitment to flood protection
</H1>
The federal government and states are arguing about flood
At the Environment Ministers Conference in Stuttgart
Rheinland-Palatinate Department Head Martini demanded
a larger financial commitment from the federal government. The
SPD politician asked for millions of dollars, which Federal
Environment Minister Trittin rejected by referring to the
responsibility of the states in this area. He instructed all the
cities and local governments to inspect all required areas in the
next five years.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-19-5>
<H1>
Renewed problems for the "Pallas"
</H1>
The lumber freighter "Pallas" stranded off Amrun has suffered new
damage and fires. According to the Schleswig-Holstein Environment
Ministry the fire in the holds has once again flared up causing a
slowdown in the pumping off of oil. The crack in the hull of the
vessel is also increasing. The wreck is sinking deeper into the
mud flats due to the water being sprayed on the fires.

