<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-1>
<H1>
Community elections in Hamburg
</H1>
 Community elections were held today in Hamburg where about 1.2
million voters were called upon to elect a new regional parliament.  The
main question was, however, whether the Social Democratic Party (SPD) would
retain its 40-year-old majority.  According to the latest polls, the SPD
will receive less votes than four years ago, when they obtained 40.4 per
cent.  It was projected, however, that the Christian Democratic Union (CDU)
and the Green/Alternative Party could count on an increase in votes.  The
poll was not able to predict whether the STATT party and FDP would be able
to obtain more than 5% of the vote (the minimum for winning representation
in parliament).  The Mayor of Hamburg, Henning Voscherau (SPD) has said
that he will base his decision on whether to continue as mayor on the
election results.  He said that he would resign if the SPD results were too
bad.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-3>
<H1>
Hamburg's mayor Henning Voscherau has resigned
</H1>
Henning Voscherau, has resigned after nine years in office.  The
56-year-old SPD politician's decision was based on the bad results his
party obtained in today's election.  Mr. Voscherau said that the Social
Democrats did not attain the majority they had hoped for, although they
still had enough seats to remain in power. The results were a bitter
disappointment to him.  On election day, a leading candidate is worth just
as much as the election results, Mr. Voscherau added.  The SPD now has to
face a difficult situation according to Mr. Kuhbier, its regional chairman
.  Mr. Voscherau's decision to step down was a surprise to party members
but was understandable when looking at the election results, he said.  The
leading candidate of the Green/Alternative Party, Christa Sager, said that
Mr. Voscherau's actions were a logical consequence of the situation. Ms..
Sager said that she admired  Mr.  Voscherau for taking personal
responsibility for the loss in votes. She added that the election result
indicated that there would be a "red/green" alliance and that it would be
advantageous for the SPD to reach a decision in this regard.  There was
some doubt as to whether the DVU, an extremist right-wing party, had won
enough seats to be represented in the parliament as it had seemed at first
that they would definitely win enough votes.  Representatives of all the
democratic parties were horrified at thought of right-wing extremist
representation in the Hamburg parliament.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-4>
<H1>
CSU rejects Mr. Schaeuble's suggestion to increase mineral oil tax
</H1>
The Christian Social Union party (CDU) has rejected Wolfgang Schaeuble's
suggestion to finance the reduction in secondary wage costs by increasing
taxes on mineral oil.  The Chairman of the Bavarian Federal Office, Mr.
Faltenhauser, emphasized that the CSU and CDU had taken a policy decision
to reject an increase of the mineral oil tax at the beginning of this month
and that Mr. Schaeuble had to stand by this decision as well. Mr. Schaeuble
had also been lobbying for an increase in the mineral oil tax to finance a
decrease in pension contributions by 1 percent . SPD chairman Rudolf
Scharping supports this proposal in principle.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-5>
<H1>
Mr. Waigel calls for increase in interest rates in industrial countries
</H1>
Theo Waigel, Federal Minister of Finance, has called for industrial
countries to  increase their interest rates soon.  Mr. Waigel said to the
interim committee of the International Monetary Fund in Hong Kong that an
increase could prevent the risk of inflation.  Moreover, this could be the
best way to increase the present rate of growth.  He continued that
industrial countries with a higher utilization of capacity and high rates
of unemployment could use an earlier interest rate increase in order to
avoid higher increases at a later date.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-6>
<H1>
Cairo attack victims flown back to Germany
</H1>
 The bodies of the nine German tourists killed in an attack in
Cairo have been flown back to Germany.  Lufthansa transported the coffins
containing the remains Cairo to Frankfurt am Main this morning. After a
short service for the relatives the victims remains were identified and
then transported to their hometowns.  An Egyptian bus driver was also
killed in the attack.  According to official Egyptian statements, the
arrested perpetrators were not Muslim extremists.  Official security
reports say, however, that they will be still be tried by a military court.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-7>
<H1>
World Children's Day in Berlin
</H1>
 Tens of thousands of visitors gathered in Berlin on the occasion
of the World Children's Day.  The children's aid organization had organized
a central fair in front of the city hall whose theme was "It is up to the
children."  There were performances taking place simultaneously on several
stages.  Rita Suessmuth, President of the Bundestag, said at the opening
that although Germany is not hostile towards children the situation is not
ideal. Nowadays, children do not fit in with the sort of apartments
available, the world of public transportation and work.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-8>
<H1>
Roman Herzog calls for donations for World Hunger Organization
</H1>
 On the occasion of the week for world hunger aid, German President
Roman Herzog has appealed to Germans for donations.  Mr. Herzog said: "Take
the fight against hunger to your heart by supporting the commendable work
of the German World Hunger Organization."  Mr. Herzog also said that hunger
is a quiet, forgotten, daily catastrophe.  Every fifth human being in this
world suffers from malnutrition.  The theme for the week for world hunger
aid which began on Sunday is "A matter of the heart - we are doing
something against hunger."

<DOC de-news-1997-09-21-9>
<H1>
President Herzog's speech
</H1>
"A matter of the heart - we are doing something against hunger."  This is
the theme for this year's donation week for the World Hunger Organization;
an appeal directed at everyone.  Almost none of us are acquainted with
hunger .  However, every fifth human being in this world still suffers from
malnutrition; every day about 18,000 children die in the developing
countries of poverty and malnutrition.  Hunger is the quiet, forgotten,
daily catastrophe.  I know that even in our country many people have their
own pressing problems and worries.  Unemployment, the results of the flood
catastrophe in East Germany, the daily struggle to survive and other
personal blows.  Some also say that people all over the world today have
more food than they need.  This is true.  However, the poor lack almost
everything.  The power to purchase in order to obtain food and seeds from
local markets, the access to fertile soil, the knowledge and methods for
fruitful agriculture.  That's why we cannot look away and stand aside.  We
are doing something against world hunger - and you all can help.  Take the
fight against hunger to your heart by supporting the admirable work of the
German World Hunger Organization.

<P>
With your aid you can help people in the poorest regions of this world to a
life of dignity with sufficient food, clean water, access to land, a basic
income, education opportunities for the future, basic medical services in
the countryside and a roof over the head.  Projects of the German World
Hunger Organization in Africa, Asia and Latin America are creating a future
perspective for a world without hunger and plight, even for the poorest of
the poor.  The  German World Hunger Organization pin showing an ear of corn
and a heart represents this goal.  Whoever wears this shows that they are
doing something against world hunger.  That's why this year I beg you with
all my heart to donate to the German World Hunger Organization. Every
donation, big or small, brings us closer to our goal of a world with a
heart, but particularly a world without hunger."

