<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-1>
<H1>
Traffic snarl on the Hannover-Berlin highway
</H1>
Heavy snowfall and icy roads snarled traffic yesterday evening
and last night on the highway between Hannover and Berlin. Traffic came to a
complete halt between Peine and Madgeburg. Even snowplows and deicing trucks
were stuck. Thousands of drivers were stuck for hours in a 70 km-long traffic
jam.The police, Red Cross and a technical assistance agency handed out food,
beverages and blankets. Snow and ice created difficult driving conditions in
Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg-Vorpommern as well.  The situation did not
improve until morning when the technical assistance agency towed some
abandoned trucks away. Despite these efforts, however, the police still
reported a 33 km-long traffic jam into Berlin early this morning.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-2>
<H1>
Wage negotiations with the union for metal, engineering and electronics broken off in North Rhine-Westphalia
</H1>
After the discussions with the union for metal, engineering and
electronics at the federal level and in the southwest, the pilot negotiations
in North Rhine-Westphalia were broken off early this morning as well. After
19 hours of discussion, the wage negotiating parties were unable to reach a
compromise on sick pay. Mr. Schartau, chief negotiator for the union, claimed
that this was the unions last attempt to resolve the conflict as a
comprehensive package. He said that strikes may take place beginning at the
end of January.
Schartau blamed the failure of the talks on the umbrella organization for the
employers association for the steel and engineering industry and its leader,
Mr. Stumpfe. He claims that the employers association destroyed the solution
that had been reached. According to Schartau, the top wage negotiators for
the union and the employers had virtually reached agreement on a compromise
package. With this compromise, sick employees would continue to receive 100%
of their salary, but the Christmas bonus  currently at 60% -- would be
between 50 and 65 percent in the future and depend on the number of ill
employees. The more employees that are off sick in a company, the smaller the
Christmas bonus, and vice versa. Salary and wages would also increase by 1.5%
in 1997 and by 2.5% in 1998.
The employers rejected the package deal after internal discussions among
their boards, however. Mr. Kannegiesser, top negotiator for the employers,
stated that the model was not elaborate enough and contained too many
unreasonable demands.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-3>
<H1>
Union for metal, engineering and electronics announces tougher stance
</H1>
After the failed wage negotiations in North Rhine-Westphalia, the
union for metal, engineering and electronics no longer wants to try to reach
a pilot agreement with employers.
Mr. Zwickel, head of the union, announced a tougher stance. He described the
failed talks as the last attempt to peacefully resolve the dispute over sick
pay. The employers wasted this chance; the union had made considerable
compromises in the employers favor. Mr. Riester, vice president of the
union, stated they will now begin 1997 wage negotiations as planned, but that
they will be especially tough.
The union is preparing for a strike in Bavaria for full sick pay. The
non-strike period ends in Bavaria on February 28th. Beginning the first of
March, the union has a free hand, according to a spokesperson.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-4>
<H1>
Bundestag debates 1997 budget draft
</H1>
Starting today, the Bundestag will debate the 1997 budget draft for
four days. The budget, disputed between the coalition and opposition parties,
will be approved once and for all on Friday. The draft calls for expenditures
of approx. DM 440 billion, which is 2.5% less than this year. The net deficit
will decrease to DM 53.3 billion, over DM 3 billion less than originally
planned by Finance Minister Mr. Waigel. The most extensive changes in
expenditures include the Federal Labor Office and the pension insurance
carriers. The federal government also plans to realize the greatest savings
in social programs.
The opposition parties reject the budget, because, they claim, it contains
too many risks. They criticize the budget draft as being "chaotic" and
"socially unjust".
The SPD and the Greens accused the federal government in the final debate of
making serious mistakes in financial policy. The speakers for budget policy
for the SPD and Greens, Diller and Metzger, stated that unemployment can not
be prevented by reducing benefits to the down-and-out and cutting taxes for
the higher wage earners. By reducing sick pay, the federal government has set
up a confrontation, they said.
Diller called the "employment package" a failure of the first order. Under
Chancellor Kohl, he claimed, Germany has sacrificed their ability to remain
strong in the future.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-5>
<H1>
German President visits Nepal
</H1>
German President Herzog begins his 5-day state visit in Nepal
today. He has an appointment this morning with the King of the Himalayan
state Mirendra, after which he meets with Nepals Prime Minister.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-6>
<H1>
Helicopter crash in June blamed on pilot error
</H1>
Pilot error caused the crash of a German military helicopter in
Dortmund in June. An investigative report by the Defense Ministry claims that
the pilot was performing risky maneuvers. Thirteen people were killed and one
seriously injured in the crash. The Defense Ministry initially indicated that
the pilot was experienced, but now admit that he was known for his
predilection for unusual flight maneuvers.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-7>
<H1>
Large-scale raid against Asian computer rings
</H1>
Police have launched a large-scale raid against Asian computer rings.
In ten countries, 2,000 officials searched about 400 offices and apartments,
11 suspects were arrested, and the search continues for 13 more. In Germany
most of the raids took place in the south and in North Rhine-Westphalia.
The suspects are claimed to have smuggled substandard computer components
into Europe and then sold them as top quality products. One of the leaders
was a 36-year old Laotian from Stamberg. A few months ago he was discovered
to be involved in dubious financial transactions which were reported to the
authorities as suspected money laundering.
Damages are estimated to be in the hundreds of million DM. Investigators also
believe that the criminal organization was also engaged in money laundering.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-8>
<H1>
DM 5,400 penalty for intoxicated streetcar driver
</H1>
The driver of a streetcar has been penalized DM 5,400 for driving
with a blood alcohol level of 4.1 p.m. Earlier this year he was driving from
Wiesbaden to Offenbach and collapsed, unconcious, in the Frankfurt train
station. He has been relocated to a desk job with the German Railways
Corporation until further notice.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-9>
<H1>
Social programs to be reorganized further
</H1>
The federal government wants to further reorganize social programs,
reported State Financial Secretary Ms. Karwazki at the opening of the 4-day
final debate in the Bundestag on the 1997 budget. The time has come to
continue restructuring the expenditures for social programs.
Ms. Karwazki, a CDU member, called for the SPD to stop obstructing the
federal governments budget cuts. At DM 154 billion, more than one-third of
federal expenditures go to social programs.
Diller, SPD spokesman for budgetary policy, accused the federal government of
incompetence. The budget drafts are a patchwork: they glorified the economic
figures, hid the risks, and denied budget gaps as long as possible.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-10>
<H1>
Coalition parties count on approval by SPD for annual tax law
</H1>
The coalition parties are counting on the SPD to approve the annual tax
law. Mr. Kloos, head of the CSU members of parliament, reported that the
majority of German states recognizes that significant cuts would have to
occur if the law were to fail. For instance, the states would not receive DM
4 to 5 billion in income from inheritance tax. The annual tax law is
currently under mediation because the Bundesrat rejected the regulation with
the majority of SPD-controlled states. According to one local newspaper, the
Flensburger Tagblatt, the coalition parties and the SPD have agreed on an
increase in the realty transfer tax from 2 to 3.5% beginning in January.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-11>
<H1>
Effect of truck driver strike on the German economy
</H1>
After nine days, the truck driver strike in France has had increasing
effects on commerce with Germany. The protest has caused problems in
particular for wholesalers who ship products to France or purchase goods
there.
According to the Karlsruhe Chamber of Commerce, automobile and
sub-contractors are mainly affected by the border blockades. Some companies
could not receive up to 30% of the parts they needed, for instance.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-12>
<H1>
Scientology forbidden to sell books in Bavarian pedestrian mall
</H1>
Members of the Scientology sect may no longer hand out flyers or
sell books in pedestrian malls without permission.  This ban by the city of
Kempten was upheld by the Bavarian Administrative Court.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-26-13>
<H1>
German Federal Vice President Mr. Klein has died
</H1>
Hans Klein, Vice President of the Bundestag, has died.  According to
CSU parliamentary leadership, the 65 year old CSU politician died this
afternoon in a Bonn hospital.  Klein had suffered a heart attack at the
beginning of November.  For days he had received artificial respiration and
could not feed himself.
Klein had been a member of the Bundestag since 1976.

