<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-1>
<H1>
Bundesrat halts laws
</H1>
The majority of SPD state delegates in the Bundesrat put a halt to several
laws which had already been approved by the Bundestag.
Among the laws affected was the annual tax law for 1997 which was passed
yesterday. The sticking point was the governing coalition's planned
abolition of the wealth tax. The states now want to begin negotiations
with the federal government as quickly as possible, so as to be able to
appeal to a mediation committee. The SPD-led states insist that the wealth
tax remain in force; they introduced a new bill in the Bundesrat to
structure the tax in accordance with constitutional guidelines. Hamburg's
Mayor Voscherau made an offer to negotiate. He said in his speech that the
federal states stood to lose 9 billion marks a year in tax income. In the
coming week, the Bundesrat will hold a special sitting to address the
matter again. The SPD-led states will then use their majority to call for
a mediation committee to settle the dispute.

<P>
The Bundesrat also stopped a law intended to cut the pay of officials on
sick-leave - for the third time. The Bundestag can now appeal to the
mediation committee one last time. In case the appeal ultimately fails,
the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Bonn is already working on a
compensation deal. This deal would see the 300,000 federal officials
either working longer or having shorter vacations in the future.
Finally, the Bundesrat also rejected a natural protection law promoted by
federal Environment Minister Merkel. According to Lower Saxony's
Environment Minister Griefahn, the law was actually so unfavourable to the
protection of nature that it could only be rejected in its entirety.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-2>
<H1>
Bundestag reforms law on Stasi files
</H1>
The Bundestag today passed a reform of the law dealing with files of the
former East German secret police. The CDU/CSU, SPD, and FDP all voted for
the change. In the future, the Gauck office, in performing background
checks on individuals, will only be permitted to give information on
activities performed for the State Security Service after 1 January 1976.
Furthermore, so-called minor activities for the Stasi will be swept under
the rug. Exceptions from these reforms will be made in the cases of
security checks and applications for particularly important positions.
The Bundestag also, despite contrary votes form the opposition parties,
passed new regulations concerning the settlement of wealth and ownership
questions in East German agriculture. Thus, members of former collective
agricultural operations will have broadened chances to pursue their claims
against the enterprises that succeeded them.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-3>
<H1>
Union salary talks break down in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
Yesterday's wage negotiations in Baden-Wuerttemberg are stalemated, and
each sides' positions are more entrenched. The IG Metall reiterated their
willingness to strike in defense of full salary payment during sick leave.
Arbitration is to decide the matter in Baden-Wuerttemberg. If the
arbitration is resolved by upholding the validity of the wage contract,
the full sick time payment in Baden-Wuerttemberg would continue until the
end of 1998, the length of the existing blanket agreement. The situation
in Bavaria appears to be different, because the blanket agreement there
has already expired. Therefore the sick pay issue could be the cause of
a strike as early as next February. Significant discord could also erupt
in other parts of the Republic in industry. Vice chairman of the IG Metall
Walter Riester announced yesterday that if industry permits the talks to
fail, no factory council should plan on using overtime. Riester sees this
as a sort of preparatory action to a strike in Bavaria. There is still a
possibility, however slight, of avoiding a further escalation of the
battle over sick pay. On November 19, negotiations are planned in
North Rhine-Westphalia. After the failure of the talks in Karlsruhe these
talks are given little chance of success.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-4>
<H1>
No German participation in peace-keeping troops for Zaire
</H1>
One week after the flight of the last international aid worker, the plight
of the refugees in eastern Zaire worsened dramatically.  All aid has been
cut off from hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom are already
suffering from hunger or dehydration. Heedless of the dramatic situation
the European community restricted itself today to further discussion and
calls for help. Foreign Minister Kinkel ruled out the
participation of German troops in the case of peace troops being sent to
Zaire. The Federal government is as skeptically opposed as ever to
military intervention in the central African crisis region. In any case
the question of the use of Bundeswehr troops is not being raised.
According to Kinkel, all available possibilities must be exhausted, be
they bilateral, European, or in conjunction with the use of the United
Nations. But his answer to the specific question of the use of German
soldiers in such a multinational force in the region was that he could see
no such participation.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-5>
<H1>
Kohl advocates an open-minded Europe
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl advocates an open-minded Europe. The inner borders
would not be torn down to build higher ones around. Kohl spoke in Oviedo,
Spain, where he received the Prince-of-Asturia Prize in International
Co-operation. In his laudatory speech the Spanish successor to the throne
Prince Felipe praised Kohl's contribution to the unification of Europe.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-6>
<H1>
Health Minister: Health system strapped for cash
</H1>
Health Minister Horst Seehofer said the German health system needs more
money to prevent bottlenecks in medical care. Right now higher user fees
[which are on top of wage-indexed contributions] were the only feasible
way, Seehofer said speaking at the fall convention of the medical
association Marburger Bund.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-7>
<H1>
Former head of military intelligence service in custody
</H1>
Cologne police confirmed last night that Mr. Schmaeling, former Navy
Admiral and head of the Military Intelligence Service, was in investigation
custody. Schmaeling who was already apprehended Thursday night is accused
of fraudulent bankruptcy of a company of which he was a stockholder.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-8>
<H1>
More job cuts at DASA expected
</H1>
The workers council at aerospace company DASA expects more job losses
because the federal defence budget has been cut. The workers council
president Mr. Hilbring said tonight in Ulm that DASA depended on government
contracts. If large projects as, e.g., the Eurofighter, NATO helicopters
or spy satellites were delayed more than 3000 jobs were threatened.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-08-9>
<H1>
Former CEO of Volkswagen died
</H1>
Former President and Chief Executive Officer of Volkswagen AG,
Mr. Schmuecker is dead. According to the company, the manager died on
Wednesday at the age of 75. Mr Schmuecker was President and CEO of
Volkswagen from 1975 to 1981.

