<DOC de-news-1998-09-17-1>
<H1>
Further discussion on value-added-tax increase
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl exerted his authority in the debate that has lasted
several days. At an event in Dresden, Kohl said, "That will not happen,
that I promise you." In an interview, Kohl also commented on his domestic
political plans should he be re-elected. He announced that the remaining
barriers in the so-called "great surveillance attack" would be removed.
Currently, certain occupations are excluded from possible electronic
surveillance.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-17-2>
<H1>
Renate Schmidt remains opposition leader in Bavaria
</H1>
Despite the disappointing showing in the State Assembly (Landtag)
elections, the SPD re-elected its top candidate as parliamentary party
leader with a wide majority. Renate Schmidt received 63 of 65 votes at the
party's organizational meeting. Schmidt called the result an overwhelming
vote of confidence. At the same time, she announced she would be calling a
closed-door meeting in October to analyze the SPD's state election
performance.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-17-3>
<H1>
Results still up in the air in one Bavarian constituency
</H1>
Andreas Leikowski, the Social Democratic candidate from Rosenheim, will
probably not be joining the State Assembly even though the preliminary
official results showed him with the most votes. The head of the state
election office announced that hundreds of votes for his opponent surfaced
during a recount. Leikowski said there had probably never been such a big
blunder in a preliminary official final result. He would have just made it
into the Assembly. But the early announcement of results, from Eichstaett
was probably made too quickly. At the final tabulation, there were
suddenly 371 more votes for Joachim Werner of Ingolstadt. These put him
ahead of Leikowski. State election officials will not make the definitive
result public until this Wednesday. Only then will the candidates
themselves learn which one of them will be serving in the Assembly.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-17-4>
<H1>
Criticism of aid West has given to Russia
</H1>
Wolfgang Karte, former head of the Federal Anti-Trust Office and a
long-time financial advisor in Moscow, sharply criticized the aid the West
has given to Russia. The billions given by the World Bank and the IMF had
trickled away through dark channels. The West had misread the situation.
Karte said on ARD television that it would take years for Russia to get
back on its feet. "The Russians finally have to show what they are willing
to do to introduce structural reforms. In the last 10, or 8 to 10 years,
the West pumped billions into Russia and, in the face of the crisis, one
can ask: where did the money go? It has certainly not gone to the reforms
we all expected of the Russians. Naturally, the advice from the West is
partly at fault. At the beginning, the pure free-marketeers were there
from the West and believed if they opened the markets and let prices
fluctuate and privatized a little that the market economy would develop on
its own. That was a huge mistake. Our thinking might have been wrong, too.
In any case, the West with its hurry-up mentality and everything has to
happen fast and snappy and quick and be covered by money - that was
obviously not right. And I am now criticizing it with good intentions.
Russia is a huge market right in front of our door and our economy is
waiting for this market to pay off for us, so we just have to try make
course corrections in the way we advise Russia, how we approach Russia."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-17-5>
<H1>
Losses from fraud in the EU amount to a million DM
</H1>
The European Commission has assessed the losses incurred by a
fraud scandal at the EU Office for Humanitarian Aid at about a million DM.
The whereabouts of the money was unclear, said EU Comptroller Gradin. She
rejected the accusation that the EU Commission had wanted to cover up the
scandal. The EU Commissioner in charge of humanitarian aid, Bonino,
stressed that the scandal did not cause a reduction in aid dispensed to
those who needed it.

