<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-1>
<H1>
Haider will not appear on ARD talkshow
</H1>
Right-wing Austrian politician Joerg Haider will not appear on the Sabine
Christiansen talkshow on ARD television this evening. Following vocal
protests against his appearance, the producers uninvited Haider. They
explained the situation by saying that it was better to engage right-wing
demagogues like Haider in a critical discussion than to isolate or ignore
them, but they had not been able to convince any prominent representatives
of German Jewish organizations, or the Israeli government, or the German
government to appear on the program opposite Haider. Michel Friedman, of the
German Central Jewish Council, and Federal Internal Affairs Minister Otto
Schily declined to appear.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-2>
<H1>
Weyrauch rejects accusations
</H1>
Former CDU financial advisor Horst Weyrauch has issued a press release
rejecting the accusations against him in the CDU donations affair. In it,
Weyrauch said that from the beginning he has been willing to tell all and to
provide all relevant documentation; so no legal means, as threatened by the
CDU executive, would be necessary. He called the behaviour of that executive
astonishing. He said that they had so far overlooked the possibility of
asking him himself about the donations and secret accounts. The 4-page
release, issued by Weyrauch's lawyer late this afternoon, includes detailed
accounts of the financial transactions of the CDU. It indicates that,
because a new law which came into effect at the beginning of 1984 obliged
political parties to much more detailed public accounting of their assets,
incomes, and expenditures, the Hessian branch of the party transferred a
total of 20.8 million D-Marks from accounts at the Metallbank to trust
accounts in Switzerland. Weyrauch admits to having opened and managed these
accounts. He claims, however, to have received no information on the origin
of the money. He also denied reports stating that the Hessian CDU had made
payments from those accounts to its mother party, the federal CDU. Weyrauch
further protested against the accusation that he had procured phony death
certificates in Paraguay in order to disguise the cash flow as a series of
bequests.
Last Friday, Weyrauch presented the Hessian CDU with a final report on his
activities on behalf of the party. The report is several thousand pages
long. The party committees are to assess the report this week.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-3>
<H1>
CDU on "public probation"
</H1>
The deputy chairman of the CDU, Annette Schavan, considers her party to be
on a sort of public probation, which threatens its very existence. Schavan,
who is also the Culture Minister for Baden-Wuerttemberg, told
Suedwestrundfunk radio that the financial consequences of the widening
donations affair would cause the party a great deal of strain. She hoped,
however, that Bundestag President Wolfgang Thierse, and everyone who has a
say in what the consequences of the affair will be, would be lenient with
the party. Schavan said the CDU/CSU, as a large populist party, was needed,
and must not be destroyed.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-4>
<H1>
Gerhardt wants CDU affair cleared up quickly
</H1>
FDP chairman Wolfgang Gerhardt has called upon the CDU to clear up the
donations affair in Hesse and at the federal level quickly. At the party
convention of the Saarland FDP, Gerhardt spoke of wild wheeling and dealing
within the CDU which could be a matter for the law to deal with.
He said that the FDP would stick to its coalition with the CDU in Hesse, but
not at any price. Gerhardt added that he had no doubt at the moment that
Hesse's Premier Roland Koch was doing everything possible to throw light on
the current dark situation.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-5>
<H1>
Flight affair: New accusations against President Rau
</H1>
New accusations have been levelled against Federal President Johannes Rau in
the North Rhine-Westphalia "flight affair". According to a report in the
"Bild am Sonntag" newspaper, Rau flew on a plane chartered by the WestLB
bank to a private birthday party in Hamburg in 1994. The newspaper quotes a
doctor from Hamburg who also attended the party. Rau's lawyer has said that
the plane had not been chartered expressly for Rau, who at that time was the
Premier of North Rhine-Westphalia. He said that Rau merely accompanied
WestLB boss Friedel Neuber to Hamburg. The lawyer added that before the
party that evening, Rau attended some meetings related to the then-running
election campaign.
Rau has already this weekend had to admit to combining service flights of
WestLB planes with party meetings.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-6>
<H1>
Apartment building fire in Hesse
</H1>
An apartment building fire in the Hessian town of Ludwigsau has claimed 4
children's' lives. Their bodies could only be recovered hours later. The
cause of the fire is not yet known. Possibly a malfunction in an oil heater
started the blaze. The fire department indicated that it was only a matter
of seconds before the building was in flames.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-30-7>
<H1>
Storm Kerstin
</H1>
The troughs of the low-pressure storm front called Kerstin did not cause any
more major damage in Baden-Wuerttemberg over night. Most of the road
closures due to wind damage have been lifted. The Weather Office in
Stuttgart advises that the storm is expected to get worse again tonight.
Kerstin has killed 4 people in Germany already, 2 by falling trees in
Baden-Wuerttemberg alone.
For northern Germany the storm warning was cancelled this morning.

