<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-1>
<H1>
Election in Saxony
</H1>
The election in Saxony has marked the worst Landtag (state parliament)
election results for the SPD in the history of the Federal Republic. The CDU
successfully defended its absolute majority. The latest figures do not,
however, as the preliminary returns at 6:00 pm did, put the Christian
Democrats at over 60 percent of the popular vote. Here are the most recent
counts: CDU 56.6%, down 1.5%; SPD 10.8%, down 5.8%; PDS 22.1%, up 5.6%. The
Greens received only 2.7%; the FDP, with 1.1%, also failed to earn any seats
in the parliament.
CDU Secretary-General Angela Merkel expressed her satisfaction with the
results, saying: "I see two major reasons for this terrific result. First,
an increasing movement by voters towards the CDU on the federal level, and
away from the SPD, especially in the East. Second, of course, the
achievements of the Saxon government in its own right, especially on the
part of Premier Kurt Biedenkopf".
Biedenkopf himself said "I am extraordinarily grateful for this huge vote of
confidence. We have been working for Saxony for nine years now. And to
receive such support after nine years - one can really only be happy and
thankful. The important thing now is that we, the state government and our
caucus, carry Saxony's interests to the federal political discussion and
work on getting a clear, consistent, predictable legal framework in the
areas of pensions, health reform, and labour market policies as quickly as
possible".
The future Secretary-General for the SPD, Franz Muentefering, acknowledged
the defeat of his party: "A bitter defeat today, as in the previous two
elections on the last two Sundays. I think the SPD in Saxony was
particularly between a rock and a hard place. One the one side, a premier
who is undeniably popular and able to personalize the campaign, and on the
other side a ruthlessly opportunistic PDS. Of course, the overall political
climate also played a significant role, as it did in the other elections."
The lead candidate for the SPD in Saxony, Karl-Heinz Kunckel, announced his
resignation already last night. The top candidate for the Greens, executive
spokesman Gunda Roestel, declined to make a statement about her possible
resignation. She wants to discuss it with her party first.
In all, 15 parties fielded candidates for the 120 seats in the Landtag in
Dresden.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-2>
<H1>
Taxation of pensions?
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court has not yet discussed the issue of taxing
pensions. Court President Jutta Limbach said that the court's Second Senate
would not address the question until November at the earliest. According to
a report in the Bild newspaper, the judges in Karlsruhe generally favour
declaring pensions taxable. Apparently, payments into pension funds would
then be made completely tax-deductible. Currently, a complex formula
determines what portion, if any, of pension income may be taxed, and at what
rate; in practice, the formula means that average pension recipients pay no
tax on their pensions.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-3>
<H1>
Construction of the Transrapid magnetic railway?
</H1>
Outgoing Federal Transportation Minister Franz Muentefering does not
consider the construction even of a slimmed-down, single-track Transrapid to
be a sure thing. He said that the companies involved must present their
positions first. Muentefering suggested several days ago that the planned
magnetic train run between Hamburg and Berlin on a single line, rather than
a paired set (one for each direction), in order to keep escalating costs
down. The Greens, in particular, reacted with sharp criticism. Muentefering
responded to that by saying that he had first discussed the idea with the
coalition's caucus leaders.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-4>
<H1>
World Children's Day
</H1>
The president of the German Children's Aid Society (Kinderhilfswerk), Thomas
Krueger, has warned of a dramatic decline in the social situation of the
family. Speaking at the main rally for World Children's Day, Krueger
complained of the growing poverty among children in Germany. He said there
were one million children and youths dependent on social security. Krueger
called for an action plan on the part of the federal government, as well as
private and public-sector partners. He said the goal should be to make child
poverty in one of the richest countries on earth a thing of the past.
Krueger also called for the creation of the position of a Federal Children's
Commissioner (Bundeskinderbeauftragter), to whom boys and girls could turn
with their concerns.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-5>
<H1>
Post office to close outlets
</H1>
The German Post Office wants to close 7000 of its postal outlets,
transferring the services to so-called "postal agencies" in department
stores or grocery stores. The chairman of the privatized Post AG company,
Klaus Zumwinkel, told the Berliner Tagesspiegel newspaper about the plans.
Over the last week, many post office counters remained closed as employees
protested against the closure of 2000 of the current 14,000 post offices.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-19-6>
<H1>
Bavarian Landesbank to be audited
</H1>
Following the scandal involving the state-owned LWS real-estate/construction
corporation in Bavaria, the state's Superior Court of Auditors also wants a
close look at the books of the semi-public Landesbank. The Landesbank
suffered losses of 1.3 billion DM in South-East Asia in the last two years.
According to a report in Focus magazine, auditors complained as early as
1996 about the supervisory committees at the Landesbank, which could not
effectively watch over the company. The head of the Bavarian State
Chancellery, Erwin Huber, who, as Finance Minister, was responsible for the
Landesbank, and was also chairman of the bank's board of directors at the
time of the Asian collapse, told Focus that he was responsible for the
billion-Mark losses, but was not to blame.

