<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-1>
<H1>
Ten year term for Hisbollah helper Smyrek
</H1>
Tel Aviv. The Tel Aviv circuit court sentenced German
national Smyrek to 10 years in prison as an accessory in the
preparation of a terrorist attack. He had been pronounced
guilty two days ago of having helped pro-Iran Hisbollah
militia to prepare an attack with explosives in Israel.
In his reasoning, the presiding judge said Smyrek was
a violent hater of Jews; he was not repentful but said
he would do it again. Due to the efficient action of the
secret service, the attack did not take place. Smyrek
received the sentence without batting an eye. He had
been arrested in 1997 while trying to enter Israel.
Smyrek, now 28, comes from Braunschweig. At the time
he confessed to the intention of photographing possible
sites for terrorist attacks. Later on he denied his
confession. His lawyer said he would file an appeal.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-2>
<H1>
Thomy blackmail trial: surprise confession
</H1>
During the trial of the blackmail action against
food-producer Nestle, the defendant offered a surprise
confession. Immediately after the charges had been read,
the 43-year-old defendant admitted having spiked Nestle
products with cyanide and placed them in supermarkets.
He is accused of 9 cases of having introduced lethal
doses of cyanide into Thomy products between 1996 and
1998 in order to obtain from Nestle DM 25 million in
raw diamonds. The foodstuffs had been detected in time
and been taken off the shelves. He was caught last year.
In his declaration in court he said he got the idea from
a movie he saw on TV.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-3>
<H1>
Zurwehme arrested in Greifswald
</H1>
After a nationwide man hunt of several months,
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern police finally arrested the dangerous
criminal Dieter Zurwehme. The ministry of internal affairs in
Schwerin stated that Zurwehme had been caught following
clues supplied by Greifswald citizens. He had been recognized
by a passer-by in downtown Greifswald. He was positively
identified. The 57-year-old criminal was arrested without
offering resistance.
Zurwehme had escaped from the Bielefeld prison during a walk
in late 1998. He is suspected of having killed two couples
and attempted several rapes during his flight
He will now probably be transferred to Rhenania-Palatinate,
whose criminal investigations office had originated the
man-hunt.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-4>
<H1>
Garbage truck and train collide: one dead, 30 injured
</H1>
Near Kleve, a garbage truck collided with a
regional train. The truck driver was killed. 30 passengers
were injured, two of them suffered severe injuries. As far
as police could find out, the truck had come to a standstill
on the tracks and been hemmed in by the closing barriers.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-5>
<H1>
Stumpfe: Metal industry has hit bottom
</H1>
40,000 jobs have been eliminated during the first
five months of this year in the metal working and electrical
industries. The employer's associations chairman, Stumpfe,
said that this might be considered rock bottom. From reports
he received from companies in the area, he concludes that
the spring recession of orders was to be considered a
temporary seasonal low.
He also explained the position of the metal/electrical
industries association on a review of wage policies. As a
whole, he said he favored wage scale autonomy with area
agreements leaving choices, complementation possibilities
and escape clauses. This way, he said, jobs might be created
and assured within a framework of company-wide "alliances
for labor". He appealed to workers to refrain from exacting
pay raises. Also, flexible working hours should be observed,
more part-time jobs created, and overtime should be reduced.
This must not happen in overall agreements, but rather must
be tailored to individual companies. In the association's
opinion, pay rates should be more closely coupled to company
performance.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-6>
<H1>
Greens: Electricity net sharing by decree if necessary
</H1>
The Green party announced that companies who up to now held
a monopoly in electric power transmission might be forced
by decree to share their nets with third parties. The Green
party's specialist in energy policies, Ms. Wustedt(?), said
such a measure might be taken unless an agreement among power
transmitters planned for next September fulfil legal
specifications.
The ecology organization "Greenpeace" is warning consumers
against spurious "cheap power"-offers. One of their energy
specialists said that the separation of basic rate and current
cost was not transparent. Germany's association of cities and
communities warned against letting municipal power companies
die over price wars in the area.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-7>
<H1>
Kirschner demands tourists to UK be excluded from donating blood
</H1>
The Bundestag's health commission's chairman Kirschner asked the
ministry of health to consider a ban on blood donating for persons
who had traveled to the UK. Talking to the press, he announced
that he was demanding a report on the matter by health minister
Ms. Fischer. Persons who spent more than six months in the UK have
been banned from donating in the US for safety reasons. The US
Dept. of Health intends to prevent a possible transmission of BSE
to humans.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-8>
<H1>
Friedmann calls for public courage
</H1>
Mr. Friedman, member of the central Jewish council
in Germany, has called on citizens to take decisive stand
against violence and discrimination. In an interview, he said
that getting accustomed to violence destroys the basics of
society. 200 to 300 graves are desecrated in Germany every year,
and there is no public outcry. Friedman condemned the desecration
of Ignatz Bubis's grave. Bubis had been chairman of the
Jewish council and died and was buried last week. He called
the perpetrator a criminally sick and crazy person. Acting
in the name of Bubis' family and of the Jewish council, he had
filed a criminal complaint against the desecrator.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-19-9>
<H1>
Emil Beck steps down from another position
</H1>
Before a backdrop of allegations of financial
irregularities, the boss of Tauberbischofsheim's Olympic training
area, Beck, stepped down from one of his positions. He renounced
from chairing the German sports federation's trainers
council. By this action, he complemented his decision, voiced
tow weeks ago, of stepping down as chief coach of Germany's
fencing league.

