<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-1>
<H1>
No common position on German-Czech declaration of reconciliation
</H1>
The parliamentary groups will be going into tomorrow's debate on the
German-Czech declaration of reconciliation without an agreed common
position. According to a spokesperson from the parliamentary group of the
SPD, the ruling coalition and the SPD have not succeeded in agreeing on a
uniform way to handle the declaration. The SPD wants the Bundestag to
adopt the declaration fully, but the CDU/CSU and FDP merely want to
establish that parliament agrees with the declaration. However, it is
expected that the Bundestag will accept the document with a large
majority. A group of politicians who largely belong to the CSU intend to
formulate their own declaration.  Some of them mean to withhold their
agreement entirely. The committee for foreign affairs unanimously welcomed
the declaration, but the parties of the coalition were not prepared to
agree to an additional resolution in which some of the passages from the
declaration were taken up again. The SPD and the Greens had introduced
this addition in support of similar, equivalent suggestions from the Czech
parliament. According to the SPD there will probably be a separate vote on
the additional resolution.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-2>
<H1>
EU demands high fines for Germany's violations of EU law
</H1>
The European Commission has demanded that Germany be fined
several million DM because of its violation of EU laws. The Commission
decided today to apply to the European Court to have the fines levied
against Bonn. According to the Commission, Germany failed to turn EU
environmental law into national law on three occasions, despite the fact
that the European Court had decided that this must be done. The decisions
concerned were made in the 70s and relate to the prevention of water
pollution and the protection of birds. This is the first time that the
Commission has applied to have a member country fined.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-3>
<H1>
Federal Court of Auditors: big mistakes made in planned move to Berlin
</H1>
Bonn: The Federal Court of Auditors has accused the Federal Government and
Ministries of making big mistakes in their plans for the coming move to
Berlin. According to an audit report for the Budget Committee of the
Bundestag which was made public today, further delays could occur if
something is not done soon. The auditor claims that the split between Bonn
and Berlin threatens to make bureaucracy even more inflated, as most
Ministries have ignored the directive from Parliament and Cabinet that the
move should be used to allow a fundamental re-organisation and a
'slimming-down' of staff.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-4>
<H1>
Controlled distribution of heroin to those worst addicted?
</H1>
Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, the spokeswoman for the FDP
parliamentary party on drug policy, has advocated the controlled
distribution of heroin to those who are worst addicted to the drug.  With
this declaration, the former Minister of Justice shows her support for a
suggestion by Voscherau (SPD), the Mayor of Hamburg.  According to
Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger, a closely controlled distribution of heroin,
with medical supervision, could be very beneficial in helping those from
the city conurbations who are strongly addicted to escape from crime and
from the street.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-5>
<H1>
Dispute about old debts of the GDR resolved
</H1>
The dispute about the old debts of the local councils in the former
GDR has been resolved. The Mediation Committee of the Bundestag and
Bundesrat has accepted a compromise that Diepgen, the Mayor of Berlin, and
Bohl, the Secretary of the Chancellor's Office, had worked out. The
agreement envisages that the Federal and State Governments will each take
on half of the DM 8.4 billion debt. The proportion which should fall to
Berlin will be paid by the Federal Government.  Bohl described this as a
very good result and he thanked Finance Minister Waigel for agreeing to
the wishes of the States and considered it of note that the Federal
Government would pay Berlin's part, DM 35 million.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-6>
<H1>
Federation of German Industry criticises tax reform plans
</H1>
The Federation of German Industry has criticised the plans to
reform the tax laws. Henkel, the President of the FGI, has called for more
thought to be given to businesses, as it is they who actually provide new
jobs and therefore, they should be the beneficiaries of any reduction in
tax. According to Henkel, the senior representative of German Industry,
salaries and wages should not be allowed to rise until a definite change
in the employment market could be perceived and this should be the same in
both the West and the East of the country. As the unemployment rate in the
new Federal States is almost twice as high as it is in the older States,
however, the pay-freeze should be correspondingly longer in the East.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-7>
<H1>
Compromise on part-time work for civil servants
</H1>
The Federal Government and the States have agreed on a compromise on
part-time work for civil servants, according to which the States will in
future be allowed to take on civil servants on a part-time basis from the
start. This has cleared the way for a reform of the civil service. The
Mediation Committee have not yet agreed on a law for the re-organisation
of statutory health insurance. The SPD wants to prevent the additional
payments made by patients increasing in parallel with the contributions
paid to the health insurance schemes.  A re-organisation of the car tax
system was also adjourned.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-8>
<H1>
Second reading of state budget in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
The ruling coalition in Baden-Wuerttemberg has defended its
budget at its second reading in the State Parliament. Premier Teufel
emphasised the fact that the State is still a world-leader in the funding
of research, for example. As well as this, Teufel stressed that the budget
for '97 was very good in comparison with other States and that
Baden-Wuerttemberg's total debt of DM 50 billion is comparatively low.
Pfister, the leader of the FDP's parliamentary faction, said that although
the cuts had hurt, they had also brought in a change in the current of
financial policy. The opposition accused the government of having made
great mistakes, however. Maurer, the SDP's parliamentary leader,
criticised the coalition for having further weakened local councils and
families in such socially and economically difficult times. He demanded
that the budget cuts should be arranged with more regard for social
justice; the cuts in funding for school pupils, in particular, should be
withdrawn. Kuhn, the parliamentary leader of the Greens, said that in the
difficult act of balancing savings against investment, the coalition had
come down too hard against investment. In addition, he criticised the fact
that the promised future-offensive for the State's young people, which was
to have been funded with DM 1 billion, had not featured in the budget. As
a prelude to the debate, representatives of both the ruling coalition and
the opposition pronounced themselves in favour of reducing the number of
deputies and of quickly addressing the long-demanded reform of
constituencies.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-9>
<H1>
DM 11 bn spent by Baden-Wuertemberg's employment office
</H1>
The employment office in Baden-Wuerttemberg has spent almost DM
11 billion on the unemployed and on those who are threatened by
unemployment in the past year. According to figures released by the State
labour office, this was DM 44 million, and seven per cent, more than in
the last year.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-10>
<H1>
Preparations made for cull of cattle
</H1>
Preparations for the enforced culling of cattle due to
mad-cow disease (BSE) have begun in Baden-Wuerttemberg. According to the
Ministry of Agriculture, the affected farms have already been registered.
The emergency decree passed by the Federal Government yesterday makes
provision for DM 2,000 for each animal to be paid in compensation to
cattle farmers. Since then, two farmers from Ostallgaeu have applied for a
temporary injunction against the Federal Government's decree for the
culling of British and Swiss cattle. The farmers have asserted that their
animals are not ill with BSE, nor are they under suspicion of being
infected according to the Animal Epidemic Law.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-11>
<H1>
Seehofer: all offspring of infected cattle should be culled
</H1>
Seehofer, the Federal Minister for Health, has demanded that all the
offspring of cattle which were imported from Britain or Switzerland should
also be culled. There should be no compromise on this issue, said
Seehofer, because of the possible danger from BSE and due to the need to
protect the nation's health. With these comments, he went further than the
emergency decree, which only provides for the culling of directly imported
cattle. Imported animals and their offspring should be culled regardless
of the results of genetic tests, Seehofer continued. The test is to
clarify whether the calf from Hoexter which was ill with BSE, got the
infection from its mother. Approximately 50,000 cattle would be affected
by the Health Minister's demands.  Borchert, the Federal Minister for
Agriculture, seemed surprised by Seehofer's demands. He restressed his
suggestion that only imported cattle and their direct descendants should
be culled. Borchert voted to wait for the results of the genetic tests
before carrying out any further culls. The majority of members of the
Parliamentary Committees for Health and Agriculture accepted the emergency
decree which had been agreed by Federal Government and the States, and on
this legal basis, 5,200 imported cattle can be culled.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-12>
<H1>
Criticism of model for pension reform
</H1>
The FDP intends to set out its own plan for the pension reform.
General secretary Westerwelle renewed his criticism of the model set out
by Bluem, the Minister for Employment, and announced that an working group
from his party would begin tomorrow to work out suggestions for a socially
and financially viable old age security system.  According to Gerhardt,
the leader of the FDP, his party will only vote for the pension reform if
the contributions to the pension scheme are stabilised on a long-term
basis at the present level, or are lowered. In the same way as the CSU,
Gerhardt sees the suggestions of the Pensions Committee merely as a basis
for discussion. He described the suggestion to make DM 610 jobs liable for
pension contributions as ridiculous as it would raise hardly an extra
penny, but it would drive those with minor employment to working
illegally, without declaring it. Gerhardt signalled a willingness to
compromise on the question of an increase in Value Added Tax. This could
be used to finance provisions not covered by insurance, as long as social
security contributions were reduced substantially beforehand. The
Bluem-model also came in for criticism from employers today, who demanded
a permanent limit of contribution rates to under 20 per cent and, if
necessary, a further lowering of the level of pensions.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-13>
<H1>
Schmalstieg suggests national chamber for local councils
</H1>
Schmalstieg, the Mayor of Hanover, has suggested that a national
chamber for local councils should be set up, in addition to the Bundestag
and Bundesrat. The third chamber should bring about a more powerful role
for the towns and municipalities in the drafting of Federal law. As
justification for this, Schmalstieg said that it was unacceptable for
Federal and State Governments to carry on enacting new laws which put
great burdens on the towns and municipalities which were responsible for
executing them.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-14>
<H1>
Around 8 million suffer from asthma in Germany
</H1>
Around 8 million Germans suffer from asthma. This figure
was made public today by the Allergy and Asthma Association.  For
children, the rate is between 12 and 15 per cent, and the trend is
increasing. According to the Asthma Association, bronchial asthma is the
most common chronic illness in children; it is triggered in seven out of
ten children by an allergy. Since the end of the war, the number of
children who suffer from asthma has increased by a factor of ten;  around
6,000 children and young people die from the illness every year, according
to the Association.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-29-15>
<H1>
Bayern Muenchen to be floated on stock exchange within 5 years
</H1>
Bayern Muenchen, a team in the German Football league, is to be
floated on the stock exchange within the next five years. Scherer, the
vice-president of the record-breaking team, said in an interview with the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung that Bayern Muenchen already had concrete plans for
the floatation worked out. The team already balanced like a joint-stock
company, but a general ruling was still lacking from the German Football
Association.

