<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-1>
<H1>
Further 500 refugees have arrived in Germany
</H1>
A further 500 refugees from Kosovo have arrived on three flights in
Leipzig, Munster and Berlin. More than half of the 10,000 refugees which
Germany have agreed to accept will have arrived by Monday. In the
meantime, the German Army is gradually running out of food and other aid
for the refugees in the countries neighbouring Kosovo. The German public
has been donating generously to funds set up for the refugees. The German
Red Cross and Kap Anamur, the Emergency Doctor's Committee, have
collected around 20 million marks. Many of the aid organisations have
been working with sister organisations in Kosovo's neighbouring
countries. Kap Anamur has received 13,2 million marks from 72,000
individual donators. Other organisations have also reported that German
donators have been generous.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-2>
<H1>
Comments prior to SPD party conference
</H1>
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has called on his party's leaders to
provide him with clear support in his course of action for the Kosovo
crisis. SPD leaders approved his application for the Kosovo operation at
a special party conference held in Bonn. Mr. Schroeder spoke of a very
serious discussion among the executive board of the party. However, he is
counting on receiving majority support. Mr. Schroeder will probably also
be elected as Oskar Lafontaine's successor as party leader at this
conference.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-3>
<H1>
Fischer makes historical comparisons
</H1>
Joschka Fischer, Minister of Foreign Affairs, has compared Slobodan
Milosevic, president of Yugoslavia, to Hitler and Stalin. Mr. Fischer
said to the news magazine "Newsweek" that Mr. Milosevic was prepared to
wage war against the existence of a nation. Mr. Fischer answered the
question on whether he saw parallels between the events in Kosovo and
Nazi Germany by saying that he could draw parallels as far as primitive
Fascism was concerned.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-4>
<H1>
Greens; dispute over Kosovo operation
</H1>
According to information from the "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" newspaper,
renewed debate has broken out in the Green Party over Germany's
participation in the war in Kosovo. The newspaper has quoted from a
letter written by the parliamentary Greens in Bonn in which Angelika
Beer, the party expert for military affairs, has criticised Joschka
Fischer. She said that he held back information before the NATO attacks
began. She writes that there had been a supplementary document to the
Ramboillet Agreement limiting the sovereignty of Yugoslavia. Had the
Greens known of this they would never have approved the Germany's
participation. She continued that at this stage, she has no more patience
for Mr. Fischer. Furthermore, he was apparently encouraging the spreading
of the conflict. She said that those who compared the troops in Belgrade
to the SS was saying that the goal of the operation should be to
eliminate Milosevic and this would only be possible by employing ground
forces.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-5>
<H1>
Lafontaine apparently resigned because of the Kosovo crisis
</H1>
Reported leaks in information before the start of the NATO
operation in Kosovo have also caused a stir in SPD circles. Oskar
Lafontaine, former leader of the party, said to the news magazine
"Spiegel" that he had resigned because of insufficient prior information
on the operation in the Balkans. Chancellor Schroeder had apparently told
him about the failire of the Rambouillet talks over the telephone,
demanding at the same time his support for German participation in the
operation. The magazine quoted Mr. Lafontaine as saying that discussions
on entering a war cannot be carried out over the telephone. Otto Schily,
Minister for the Interior, has denied these accusations. He said to the
ARD television station on Sunday evening that Mr. Lafontaine had been
adequately involved and informed.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-6>
<H1>
Demands for new policies regarding drugs
</H1>
Wulff, acting federal head of the CDU, has called for his party to
participate in an open discussion on drug policies. He said to the news
magazine "Focus" that the CDU should be open to new arguments. He pleaded
for laws to be passed for trial centres where addicts could shoot drugs.
He said that such centres should no longer be a forbidden topic and that
a more tolerant attitude towards drug addicts had thus been handicapped
in Frankfurt and Hannover.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-7>
<H1>
Bank strikes continue
</H1>
The conflict between employers and unions in the banking industry is to
be continued this week in several German states. This was announced by
the National Union of Employees (DAG) in Hamburg. According to the DAG,
thousands of bank employees have rejected employers' demands to permit
unlimited shifts on Saturdays. The association representing bank
employers had recommended to it's members that they accept an interim
wage increase for the banking industry of 3.1 percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-11-8>
<H1>
Skinheads recruited for NPD in Thuringia
</H1>
The right extremist party in the East German state of Thuringia, the
National Party of Democracy (NPD), is apparently recruiting young
skinheads and other right wingers to become members so as to improve the
party's chances in the coming state elections in September. Mr. Roewer,
president of the State's Department for Tutelage of the Constitution said
to the magazine "Focus" that it has been observed that extremist
right-wing groups have been practically "sucked" into the NPD.  Known
Neo-nazis have also been placed onto the party's election lists. The NPD
in Thuringia has managed to recruit 50 members since 1998.

