<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-1>
<H1>
Closed meeting of CSU delegates in Wildbad Kreuth
</H1>
Wildbad Kreuth. The Bavarian party on the national scene, the CSU, began
its traditional private party meeting today in Wildbad Kreuth. The central
discussion point of the three-day meeting of the 50 CSU members of
parliament will be the planned mammoth tax reform programme. Other topics
to be considered include policies concerning foreigners in Germany,
internal security, unemployment, and pension reforms. Expected to appear
as guests at the convention are Bavaria's premier Stoiber as well as
former East German rights activist Konrad Weiss. Weiss is to speak about
the mood of citizens in the former East. The leader of the parliamentary
group, Glos, warned coalition partner FDP against worrying too much about
image. On his arrival in Kreuth, Glos said that it was not good for the
party itself, nor for the coalition in the long run, if the FDP acted as
if it could not run for all of its leg muscles; the Free Democrats knew
very well that they would sink in to insignificance if they endangered the
coalition in Bonn. Concerning the dispute with the Liberals over the
scheduling of abolishing the solidarity supplement, Glos said the FDP
would be well advised to hold its fire on that front. He also called on
the FDP to be more willing to compromise on questions of internal security
and policies dealing with foreigners in Germany. Glos also criticized the
SPD and its leader, Lafontaine, who he said was leading that party into a
political dead-end. The past few days have seen serious disagreements
between CSU and FDP over the abolishment of the 7.5 percent solidarity
supplement. Among other things, CSU party leader and federal finance
minister Waigel had demanded of FDP leader Gerhardt an explanation of how
to finance the simultaneous abolishment of the solidarity supplement and
introduction of tax cuts of up to 30 billion marks. Even before the CSU
convention started, differing views of various matters had been made
known. For example, Glos called for drastic limitations to be placed on
immigration, given the labour market. He also emphasized that the planned
tax reform could lead to an increase in the value-added tax; this would
become necessary if there were a financial short-fall after the planned
tax cuts.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-2>
<H1>
Bundestag Greens hold talks in Woerlitz
</H1>
The parliamentary group of Alliance '90/the Greens today began
discussing strategies for the 1998 bundestag election campaign. The
programme for the 3-day convention in Woerlitz (Saxony-Anhalt) therefore
includes talks with prominent members of the SPD, such as economic
minister Clement of North Rhine-Westfalia. The leader of the Greens,
Kerstin Mueller, told Deutschlandfunk radio that the invitation of the SPD
politicians represented a clear signal in favour of red-green cooperation:
Chancellor Kohl would be replaced by a red-green coalition in 1998. The
leader of the parliamentary group, Fischer, said his party was hoping for
a red-green majority in the next bundestag. He added that it would be
helpful if the SPD also came out clearly in favour of such a coalition.
Other issues under discussion at the convention include energy, building
up the East, as well as reforms of the welfare state. It is also expected
that there will be a discussion of the party's relationship with the PDS.
Fischer and Mueller have, for the time being, refused a close cooperation
with the PDS; the question may come to be posed again if reformers within
the PDS gain control of the party. Fischer added that they would also have
to come to terms with their past and break with the post-Stalinists.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-3>
<H1>
Number of refugees continues to fall
</H1>
The number of asylum-seekers in Germany was lower in 1996 than it
has been in 7 years. According to the federal ministry of internal
affairs, last year saw 116,400 refugees registered - down about 9 percent
from 1995. Of those, 14,400 were found to have valid claims, which is
again substantially fewer than in the year before.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-4>
<H1>
Four more East German rights activists switch to CDU
</H1>
Four more former East German rights activists have changed party
allegiances to join the CDU. The CDU in the state of Brandenburg made the
announcement today. The four members were in a citizens' group that had
broken off from Alliance '90/the Greens. In December, Green members of
parliament Lengsfeld and six other rights activists joined the CDU.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-5>
<H1>
Federal President Herzog to receive Karl Prize
</H1>
Federal President Herzog is to receive the International Karl
Prize this year. As a spokesman for the city administration announced, the
federal president was selected for having contributed in many ways to
strengthening the feeling of community and belonging in Europe. The Karl
Prize of the City of Aachen is considered to be one of the most important
European prizes. It will be awarded to Herzog on May 8.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-6>
<H1>
Public prosecution demands long sentences for Aldi blackmailers
</H1>
In the trial against the two blackmailers of the Aldi grocery chain, the
public prosecution has called for long prison sentences. In the view of
the complainant, the 23-year-old primary suspect should spend 11 years in
prison for attempted extortion, his 27-year-old brother 4 years. The two
brothers from Halle attempted to extort 3 million marks from the retail
chain by means of explosives planted at 4 Aldi stores last year. The
defence called for a milder sentence - one which would grant an "East
extenuation" for two former East Germans led astray by the promises of
affluent society after the fall of the Berlin Wall.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-7>
<H1>
Airplane hijacker confesses
</H1>
The 39-year-old Bosnian who forcibly took control of an airplane
yesterday made his confession today. According to police, the man wanted
to extort a residency permit for Germany by hijacking the Austrian Airways
plane en route from Berlin to Vienna. His residency visa expired on
December 2 last year and was not renewed. The federal ministry of internal
affairs has begun its own investigation.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-8>
<H1>
Federal Labour Court: no reduced pay for students
</H1>
Students who hold a regular part-time job to finance their studies
may not be paid less than regular employees. That is the decision of the
Federal Labour Court in Kassel. The judges rejected the argument of many
employers that students kept more of their pay because they were exempt
from welfare deductions. The court found that the wages due to employees
were, on principle, independent of their situation in private life. The
court also made reference to the law which prohibits lesser benefits for
part-time employees. The complainant, a law student, must now be
compensated for missed wages and Christmas bonuses in the amount of
approximately 20,000 marks.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-08-9>
<H1>
Suu Kyi: German public should stop investment office in Burma
</H1>
The Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has called on the
German public to prevent the establishment of an investment office in
Burma planned by leading German companies. She said in an interview that
the investments planned by German Telekom, the Dresdner Bank, ABB, and
five other companies in the country ruled by a military junta would only
benefit the rulers: "If I could talk them out of this plan, I would.
Perhaps the German public should convince them to stop." A plan by Messe
Muenchen (Munich Trade Show Company) to organize a technology trade show
in Burma, with the help of the Bavarian government, also brought heated
protests from human rights activists.

