<DOC de-news-1997-09-23-1>
<H1>
Coalition rejects Schaeuble's suggestions
</H1>
High-ranking representatives of CDU, CSU, and FDP have rejected proposals
by CDU faction leader Wolfgang Schaeuble to increase not only the sales tax
but also the mineral oil tax to allow for a reduction of wage fringe costs.
After a meeting sources said there was no majority within the coalition for
his proposals. Schaeuble had only stated his personal opinion. Schaeuble's
offer of last weekend was a step towards the SPD to facilitate an agreement
about the tax reform. The coalition parties, however, stressed they wanted
to approach the tax reform in closed formation. Next Thursday, the
Bundestag's Mediation Committee will deal again with the tax reform. The
government coalition wants to start out from their current position, SPD
faction leader Rudolf Scharping, however, hopes that Mr. Schaeuble will be
able to convince the coalition of his proposal. This would allow an
agreement in the mediation Committee.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-23-2>
<H1>
Countrywide protests by postal workers
</H1>
Countrywide protests by postal workers have interfered with mail and parcel
distribution and post office services. The German Union of Postal Workers
has called on the 300,000 employees to assemble for special workers
meetings to underline their criticism of the introduction of competition
that is planned by the government. The planned new postal law includes a
proposal to introduce open-market competition for letters above 100g. The
Postal Union thinks this will threaten thousands of jobs within German
Post.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-23-3>
<H1>
EU Commission demands action against German butcher firms
</H1>
The EU Commission has ordered the Federal government to instigate
proceedings against three German firms suspected of dealing with British
beef. One firm in Kaltenkirchen, Schleswig-Holstein should have its trading
license removed. The Commissioner in charge of consumer protection, Emma
Bonino, said in Brussels that she has written to the government about the
matter. There is apparently enough evidence to demand the closure of the
firm. Bonn now has a week to react to the demand. The state government of
Schleswig-Holstein, however, says it cannot legally close the firm in
Kaltenkirchen, as the public prosecutor's office and customs officials have
not yet completed their report. EU inspectors established infringements
against the export ban for British beef two weeks ago. According to
Brussels, 440 tonnes of supposedly Irish beef had been repackaged and
distributed out of the Kaltenkirchen firm alone.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-23-4>
<H1>
Higher levels of new debt in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
For the first time in six years the level of new debt is set to rise in the
state budget of Baden-Wuerttemberg. According to reports from coalition
circles, in the second supplementary budget for the current year the
previously envisaged new debt of DM 1.6 bn will go up by about DM 1 bn. The
reasons for this include the massive reduction in tax income and
insufficient cost savings in personnel. The opposition in the Stuttgart
state parliament accused the government of unserious and irresponsible
finance policy.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-23-5>
<H1>
Weekend rail ticket continues to be valid for Saturdays and Sundays
</H1>
The weekend ticket will be valid on Saturdays and Sundays until the end of
the year. The plan to restrict the ticket to a single day is now off the
agenda, according to a rail spokesperson. Negotiations will be started with
the transport unions to introduce a so-called "family component". No
further details on this were given. By restricting the ticket to one day
the railway wanted to combat the growing black market on the cheaper
tickets. The ticket is often used on the Saturday and re-sold for use the
next day. The ticket, priced DM35, can be used by up to 5 people on certain
local trains at the weekend.

