<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-1>
<H1>
Chancellor Schroeder: War in Kosovo will take its time
</H1>
UN General Secretary Annan has widened the scope of his endeavours
to come to a solution in the Kosovo crisis. According to his spokesperson
in New York, he has scheduled meetings with the ambassadors of the five
permanent members of the World Security Council, to work on a solution.
Last night Chancellor Schroeder said on ARD-television that Mr Annan's
trying as well as Germany would on the one hand raise hopes that there
could be a diplomatic solution, though on the other hand he did not believe
that the war would be over soon.

<P>
Prior to that, Defence Minister Scharping spoke about new atrocities
committed by Serbian soldiers. He announced that he would pass on the
relevant documentation to the International Court for War Crimes in The
Hague. According to UN-Human Rights Commissioner Robinson, there are
indications that executions of Kosovo Albanians have been committed by
Serbian soldiers.

<P>
According to US sources an alleged mass grave has been discovered near the
provincial capital of Pristina. Today NATO continued with more airstrikes.
This afternoon the allied forces in Brussels have refuted claims they were to
blame for the death of numerous civilians in western Kosovo two days ago.
In Washington US Defence Minister Cohen stated that he wanted to call up
a substantial number of reserve forces for deployment in Jugoslavia.
Meanwhile the flow of refugees into Albania and Macedonia is as strong as
ever. According to the UN refugee organisation, more than 12,000 refugees
crossed the border within the last 24 hours. Obviously Belgrade was planning
to expel all Kosovo Albanians, according to a spokesperson in Geneva.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-2>
<H1>
Financial help for the 12 countries sharing the coast of the Mediterranean
</H1>
The European Union agreed on financial help for the 12 countries sharing the
coast of the Mediterranean. At the end of the EU-Mediterranean Conference in
Stuttgart, a spokesperson for the German Foreign Office stated that probably
billions of marks would be available towards the year 2006, though the exact
amount had not been set yet. In the past 4 years, the amount had been more
than 4 billion euros. The participants also agreed on formulating a charter
about peace and stability. The charter is to be drafted till the next meeting
in two years' time.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-3>
<H1>
Tax-refunds for 4.5 million German families
</H1>
Some 4.5 million families will get a tax-refund, as their exemptions
for children had been set at too low a level. This would affect the years
1985 to 1995, so there was no need to apply for the refund (as these years
were still 'current', according to the tax-office). The refunds will hit
federal and state finances to the tune of almost 1 billion marks.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-4>
<H1>
Volkswagen and banks' awards talks stalled without a result
</H1>
Awards talks for the approximately 100,000 workers employed by Volkswagen
in West Germany have been postponed without having reached a result.
Both sides are to have another go next Thursday. The employers had offered
2.5% more pay, as of 1 August, plus a bonus of 1000 marks, depending on
profits. They also agreed to convert 6000 temporary jobs to permanent jobs.
The union declined the offer as insufficient. They want 3.2% more pay plus
a one-off bonus of 1% of an annual pay. The banks also have not settled
their awards either. According to the unions some 12,000 staff went on strike
today, mainly in Frankfurt, Hamburg and Munich.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-5>
<H1>
Finance Minister Eichel for a "Marshall Plan" for the Balkans
</H1>
Federal Finance Minister Eichel asked for a long-term commitment by the
European Union as far as the Balkans were concerned. At a meeting of the
EU economics and finance ministers in Dresden, Mr Eichel said that there
would have to be something similar to the Marshall Plan, that after WWII
brought Germany back on track. But it was not only money that was needed,
but also support for building up democracies in the former communist
countries. The ministers were halting repayments of loans for the countries
of Macedonia and Albania which are taking in the bulk of the refugees from
the Kosovo region.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-16-6>
<H1>
Negotiations about fund for forced labourers during Third Reich
</H1>
Federal government thinks that agreement on the planned fund for forced
labourers during the Third Reich will be reached soon. Mr Hombach,
speaking for Chancellor Schroeder, said that the concept had been finalised.
But there were still judicial problems with the companies concerned. That's
why he wanted to meet the US government and Jewish organisations once again,
within a fortnight. Deutsche Bank would only agree to the fund if the classaction suits in the United States were withdrawn. The Nurnberg Labour Court
began the first of 58 lawsuits: forced Ukrainian labourers vs the military
equipment conglomerate Diehl.

