<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-1>
<H1>
Lower Saxony's State Premier Glogowski resigns
</H1>
The CDU asked for new elections after Lower Saxony's State Premier Glogowski
resigned. Mr Wulff, who heads Lower Saxony's CDU, stated in Hanover that
within this term there should not be another head of state who did not have
the voters behind him. The FDP said that the SPD should now face an election
campaign. The Greens thought that Mr Glogowski's resignation had been long
overdue. Mr Glogowski had recently been at the centre of allegations of
graft: part of private travel and visits to opera houses allegedly had been
paid for by private companies. 56-year old Mr Glogowski refuted these claims
once again when speaking to the press at Hanover. The position of head of
state and his personal integrity, however, had suffered too much. Mr
Glogowski had been elected just over a year ago, when the incumbent,
Mr Schroeder, became Federal Chancellor. Tomorrow the SPD will think about
the likely successor.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-2>
<H1>
Mr Geissler indirectly confirms existence of special party accounts
</H1>
Former Chancellor Kohl is in a bit of a plight, and it's getting worse and
worse, in the wake of the CDU party-donations scandal. Former General
Secretary Geissler declared in an interview with radio WESTDEUTSCHER
RUNDFUNK, that for years the CDU had put monies into secret accounts. He had
always thought that this was not right. Mr Geissler's statement indirectly
confirmed what the newspaper SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG had said before: Mr Kohl
had (tacitly) agreed to putting monies into trust-accounts opened in someone
else's name. That had also been true for the million marks arms-dealer
Schreiber had paid. CDU General Secretary Merkel said that hopefully
Mr Geissler knew what he was saying, though his statements would not keep
her party from clarifying the allegations in a constructive manner. Head of
the CDU Schaeuble announced that all accounts would be audited by an
independent chartered accountant. He said in Berlin, that he had checked
with Mr Kohl and agreed that CDU-consultant Weyrauch would make all files
available to the chartered accountant.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-3>
<H1>
Berlin: coalition talks in stalemate
</H1>
In Berlin the talks between CDU and SPD about continuing their coalition are
in a stalemate: both parties' commissions had planned to meet today, but
didn't. CDU-spokesperson Bambach said that they had discussed contentious
issues mainly concerning budget policies, in a smaller group. And there were
plenty of details requiring clarification in the areas of education,
internal security and business. The group of 4 top-politicians per party are
to meet again tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-4>
<H1>
Upper House (Bundesrat): ecological tax-reform and cost-cutting passed
</H1>
The Upper House (Bundesrat) passed the second stage of ecological tax-reform
plus large portions of the cost-cutting laws. This means that petrol and
electricity taxes will go up as of 1 January. For the next two years,
pensions will only rise as much as inflation (not net-wages).
Health-reforms, however, did not make it, so will be split into two parts:
one that does not require Upper House (Bundesrat) consent, and another one
that does, according to Health Minister Fischer. She planned to get the
Mediation Committee involved next week. The law on restructuring tax and
the law on family support also were put on hold, as well as the planned
taxation of life insurance.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-5>
<H1>
Parliament (Bundestag): budget 2000 passed
</H1>
Parliament (Bundestag), sitting in Berlin, took several days of debate, but
passed the 2000 budget against the votes of the opposition parties. It
does not require Upper House (Bundesrat) consent, and consequently may
be signed into law as planned. Federal expenses will be 478.8 billion marks,
and additional debt will stay below the 50 billion mark - something that had
not been the case since 1992. Then all members of parliament agreed to a
draft-law providing higher pay-outs to former political prisoners in the
German Democratic Republic. All of them are to be paid 600 marks for each
month they spent in prison, and these amounts may now also be claimed by
surviving family-members if the prisoner died in jail.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-26-6>
<H1>
Future of Bavaria's Maxhuette appears to be secure
</H1>
The future of Bavaria's Maxhuette apparently is secured. According to
Bavaria's Economics Minister Wiesheu, the banks would grant another loan
to the tune of 140 million marks. This should pave the way to a buy-out
by steel-magnate Grossmann, from Lower Saxony. At noon, some 1000 staff
had demonstrated for keeping their jobs.

