<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-1>
<H1>
Abducted German tourists in Yemen freed
</H1>
The four German tourists, from Berlin and Voelklingen, who had been
abducted in Yemen, were released this afternoon. The three women and one
man were taken hostage more than three weeks ago, in an attempt by the
kidnappers to force grants of aid from the national government in San'a.
It is not yet known if a ransom was paid. A speaker for the Foreign Office
in Bonn said that Germany did not pay any ransom, and that the German
tourists were fine and would be returning to Germany yet today.
Yesterday three British and one Australian tourist were killed in Yemen
when police attempted to end a hostage-taking by force.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-2>
<H1>
Seiters wants all-party committee to discuss case of ex-spy "Topaz"
</H1>
The vice-president of the Bundestag, Rudolf Seiters (CDU), wants to
convene an all-party parliamentary advisory committee to discuss the plan
of the PDS to have former East German spy, Rainer Rupp, alias "Topaz", act
as expert adviser to its representatives in the Bundestag. Seiters told
the newsmagazine Bild that the members of the Bundestag could not simply
accept such a shameless affront without comment. A representative of the
SPD, Stephan Hilsberg, said the committee would have to examine the
question of whether the PDS should be excluded from all discussions on
matters of security.
Rupp was active as "Topaz" from 1977-89, supplying East Germany with
secret information from NATO headquarters in Brussels. In 1994 he was
sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment for his spying activities. As of the
beginning of this week, he is on partial parole in Saarland.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-3>
<H1>
Welteke expects euro to be stable
</H1>
The future European common currency, the euro, will be stable following
its introduction, in the judgement of the president of Hesse's state
central bank (Landeszentralbank), Ernst Welteke. Speaking to
Deutschlandfunk radio this morning, Welteke said that, while looking into
the future was never a guaranteed proposition, the prospect that existing
conditions would allow the euro to enjoy the same stability as the
Deutschmark were relatively good. He also said that the fact that the
Asian financial crisis had not yet affected the 11 euro-participants was a
result of the work in moving towards a common currency. Welteke warned
that the euro would not, in itself, provide an instrument to fight
unemployment in Germany: in the long term, it would lead to greater
economic growth and hence to more jobs; but in the short term, the causes
of unemployment would have to be sought elsewhere.
The finance ministers of the EU countries will determine the final
conversion rates of their national currencies against the euro tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-4>
<H1>
Thierse's New Year's speech: Don't give up in the face of unemployment
</H1>
Bundestag President Wolfgang Thierse has warned the country against
resigning itself to high unemployment rates. In his New Year's speech,
Thierse said that especially the high number of unemployed youth
represented a catastrophe at both the societal and individual levels. He
also said that there was the special danger in the East, that right-wing
extremism feeds upon unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-5>
<H1>
Fischer dissolves expert health commission
</H1>
Following the example of Environment Minister Juergen Trittin, Federal
Health Minister Andrea Fischer has now dissolved the expert commission for
health matters. The 7-member commission is supposed to resume its work at
the end of January, with all-new appointees. Fischer wants the commission
to set new priorities, and especially to look into the provision of
healthcare by family doctors (rather than hospitals or specialists);
according to her, that change requires a different set of experts.
Environment Minister Trittin recently ran into trouble with Federal
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder when he dissolved the commission for nuclear
reactor safety and radiation protection without discussing the move with
the Chancellor first.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-6>
<H1>
Doering calls for moderate wage policies, to strengthen economy
</H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg's Economic Minister, Walter Doering, says that
continued economic growth in his state depends upon responsible wage
policies. He made the remarks during a New Year's speech. Doering said
that the ability of businesses to make investments must be strengthened,
and that no real progress could be expected in that regard from the
federal government's business tax reform plans.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-30-7>
<H1>
Schmitt wins preliminaries at 4-Jump Ski Tournament
</H1>
Martin Schmitt of Furtwangen won the preliminaries in the 4-Jump Ski
Tournament (Vierschanzentournee) in Obersdorf. Austrian Andreas Goldberger
came in second; Japanese Noriaki Kasai was third. Last year's winner,
Dieter Thoma from Hinterzarten came in tenth.

