<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-1>
<H1>
EU summit: Prodi named new head of EU Commission
</H1>
The government leaders and heads-of-state of the European
Union have named former Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi as the new
head of the EU Commission, at a special summit meeting in Berlin.
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder explained that Prodi had all the
qualities necessary to drive forward reforms within the EU. The vote
was unanimous.  Schroeder, in his function as chairman of the European
Council, had placed the vote at the top of the agenda. Government and
opposition parties in Bonn all praised the decision as a positive
sign.

<P>
Following brief discussions of the crisis in Kosovo, the national
leaders concentrated on the "Agenda 2000" reform package. The summit
schedule gives them until tomorrow evening to reach decisions about
reforms to the agricultural budget, structural and "cohesion" funds,
as well as the adjustment of EU contributions from the member
countries. The German presidency of the EU Council yesterday presented
a compromise in which Britain and Spain, in particular, would make
concessions in the areas of contributions and regional development
funds. However, the German government wants agricultural expenditures
lowered more than the plans call for. The president of the German
Farmers' Association, Gerd Sonnleitner, called upon participants at
the summit not to pass Agenda 20000 in its current form, due to fears
of a serious drop in income for farmers.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-2>
<H1>
Special session in the Bundestag on tax policies
</H1>
The federal SPD-Green coalition has not yet put a figure on the
tax relief to be granted in reforms of family and business tax
policies.  Leading SPD and Green financial policy-makers did, however,
in a special session of the Bundestag, affirm that the tax relief
would be financed by means of cuts in other areas, and not through an
increase in the Value-Added Tax (VAT). They did not rule out the
possibility of increasing the VAT in the future.

<P>
The CDU/CSU and FDP accused the coalition of chaotic finance and
taxation policies. They also said that the Government had, in reality,
decided upon an increase to the VAT long ago.

<P>
The last increase to the VAT came under Helmut Kohl's government, when
it was raised by 1 percent, to 16 percent, on April 1, 1998.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-3>
<H1>
Greens want to replace tax-deductible mileage allowance
</H1>
The Greens want to decrease the tax-deductible vehicle
mileage allowance between home and the workplace. The Parliamentary
Secretary-General for the Green caucus in the Bundestag, Kristin
Heyne, explained in an interview that the current mileage allowance
clearly favoured those using their car to get to work (rather than
public transportation). Heine said government subsidies for private
vehicle use must be restricted, and the current allowance of 70
Pfennig per kilometre was too high. She also said that the vehicular
mileage allowance should be replaced by a distance allowance
applicable to any means of transportation, as provided for in the
SPD-Green coalition agreement.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-4>
<H1>
Federal Administrative Court confirms spelling reform
</H1>
The Federal Administrative Court has confirmed the legality of
the long-controversial spelling reform. The Sixth Senate of the
country's highest administrative court thus reversed a previous ruling
by the state Administrative Court in Berlin, which had agreed with the
complaint of a Berlin pupil against the spelling reform in November
1997. The federal-level court, however, found that the reform did not
contravene pupils' basic rights. It also ruled that no special law was
necessary for the reform to be implemented. This court thus agreed
with the Federal Constitutional Court, which had declared the spelling
reform to be legally valid in July 1998.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-5>
<H1>
Constitutional Court will not hear cases against organ donation law
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court has refused to hear a
number of constitutional challenges directed against the 1997 organ
transplant law. Approximately 250 complainants wanted the law struck
down because it allowed their organs to be removed for
transplantation, after death, without their explicit consent. They
said that that provision offended their dignity and right to
self-determination. The law allows family members to permit organ
donation if no statement of consent or objection, on the part of the
dead, exists. According to the Constitutional Court, the law does not
contravene any basic rights, because anyone can prevent becoming a
posthumous organ donor by formally objecting to the procedure ahead of
time.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-6>
<H1>
Second round of wage talks for hospital staff
</H1>
The second round of talks has begun for 490,000 hospital
employees. Scheduled to run for two days, the negotiations are being
accompanied by protests from the unions. Several thousand clinic
employees protested at the site of the talks, in Potsdam, against
declines in their working conditions and incomes. The Public Service
and Transportation union (OeTV) and the National Union of Employees
(DAG) had also called for protests in Saxony-Anhalt, Bavaria, and
Schleswig-Holstein. Employers want to negotiate, among other things,
cuts to Christmas and labour bonuses.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-7>
<H1>
Talks on bad-weather pay broken off
</H1>
The dispute over new rules for bad-weather pay for construction
workers continues. The talks between labour and management at the
Federal Labour Ministry ended today without an agreement or a date for
the next round. The ministry said it was regrettable that the
negotiations had been broken off. The IG Bau union is demanding that
construction workers receive badweather pay starting at the first
hour of work lost due to bad weather. The Central Association of
German Construction Companies blamed the union and its intransigence
for the breaking-off of the talks.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-24-8>
<H1>
ABB electronics to cut 1000 jobs
</H1>
The electronics company ABB Deutschland plans to cut 1000
jobs in its automation division. A spokesman for the company announced
in Mannheim that it was not yet clear exactly which plants would be
affected, and that compulsory lay-offs would be largely avoided. In
Mannheim and Eschborn alone, ABB's automation division employs 6100
people. In total, the company has 23,700 employees in Germany.

