<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-1>
<H1>
Second session on federal budget and general debate
</H1>
On the second day of debate on the 1997 federal budget in the
Bundestag lower house today, the budget positions of the Chancellor's
Office, the Foreign Ministry and the Defence Ministry were the main
topics. As dictated by tradition, the opposition parties took the
opportunity offered by the budget debate to engage in general criticism
of the government's policies. During the "general debate", the
opposition accused the government of having fraudulent and anti-social
policies. Social Democrats leader Lafontaine pointed out to Chancellor
Kohl that large parts of the population did not believe the government's
iniatitives to further growth and employment would be successful. The
government and its policies had failed; its course of action was marked
by social inequity, Lafontaine continued. A government that wanted to
abolish capital tax at the same time as putting off the promised child
rebates ought to be elected out of office, he added. The government had
to be held responsible for unemployment, a decreasing standard of living,
public debt and welfare cuts, Lafontaine said. The austerity "savings
package" he called "false labelling". SPD parliamentary faction leader
Scharping called for a fairer distribution of burdens. The will to bring
this about was undetectable in the government, and the advocates of the
socially weaker did not have a voice, he added.
Faction spokesperson of the Alliance 90/Greens Fischer said the
government's policies were solely designed to keep it in power. It was
not interested in reforms, but rather just wanted to satisfy its
clients. If the Kohl government remained in power, savings packages were
to be expected every six months, Fischer continued, before calling for
an end to the timid course taken by the opposition parties.
CDU/CSU "Union" parliamentary faction leader Schaeuble accused the
opposition of painting a caricature of the situation in Germany in order
to accelerate the fears of the populace. At the same time however the
SPD was blocking important laws designed to maintain Germany's
attractiveness for investors, he added. Germany had to answer the
callenge posed by international competition by introducing the planned
spending cuts. The Germans had never had it so good as in the 90ies, but
decisions had to be made now in order to maintain prosperity, Schaeuble
continued.
Chancellor Kohl vehemently rejected the opposition's criticisms, saying
it closed its eyes to a changing world. Instead it made people anxious
through theories of pauperisation. Red flags and war cries did not help
the unemployed, Kohl said. Rather, reforms designed to make Germany fit
for the future were the order of the day. His government's ambitious
goal was a halving of the unemployment rate by the year 2000, Kohl
continued. He called on trade unions and employers to make their
contribution to the necessary structural reform. He warned against a
Red-Green coalition at the federal level, citing North Rhine-Westphalia
as a disgusting example of shying away from reform and lack of
perspective. The Chancellor also said he was convinced that the
Bundestag was going to pass the savings package on Friday. After that
had happened, there would again be talks with the SPD and unions.
If the Bundesrat upper house is going to reject the package tomorrow as
expected, the government will need an absolute majority in the Bundestag
on Friday. The governing coalition parties of CDU/CSU and FDP have 341
seats, four more than necessary. The package includes cuts to paid
sick-leave, a relaxation of dismissal laws for small business, and a
rise in the retirement age. In an interview, Kohl said the package was
necessary and was in no way a contravention of the requirement for
social justice. Additional lightening of the tax payers' load was only
achievable through spending cuts, he said. The biggest social injustice
of them all however was the inability of jobseekers to find employment,
Kohl added.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-2>
<H1>
Paid sick-leave cuts in construction industry to become reality soon
</H1>
Come November, construction industry workers who fall ill will
have to contend with a 20% reduction of their wages. The Central
Association of the German Construction Industry has announced its
intention to bring into force as soon as possible the expected law on
cuts to paid sick-leave. The law is able to be applied immediately
because the sick-leave payments are not regulated by the collective wage
agreement. Some 1.3 million people work in construction in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-3>
<H1>
Kohl: Germany to continue taking part in Bosnia peacekeeping mission
</H1>
The Federal Government is determined to continue the involvement
in the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia even after the UN mandate expires.
Chancellor Kohl, speaking in the Bundestag today, said he could not
imagine the Germans shying away from this responsibility. SPD faction
Vice-Chairman Verheugen likewise called Germany's taking part in the
peacekeeping mission indispensable, and said he thought a discussion on
the topic was premature. The Chancellor also announced that the
Czech-German Declaration of Reconciliation was planned to be ratified
before the end of the year. There was some difference of opinion over the
NATO extension eastwards. Kohl again argued in favour of taking into
account Russia's security concerns. The SPD on the other hand sees this
as likely to arouse fear in other countries that want to join. This was
especially true for the Baltic, where great expectations had been
raised.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-4>
<H1>
Herzog on official visit to Slovenia
</H1>
German President Herzog today arrived for a two-day official
visit in Slovenia. Herzog wants to get informed on the political
situation in the country. After a meeting with Slovenian President Milan
Kucan, Herzog stressed that Bonn was determined that Slovenia should
become a member state of NATO and the EU as soon as possible. Germany
would do everything within its power to support the ex-Yugoslav republic
in reaching this aim. Kucan assured Herzog that the country had created
a stable basis and all prerequisites for the memberships. In the
evening, Herzog laid a wreath at the memorial for the victims of
Germany's WWII occupation of Slovenia. Slovenia has had a peaceful
development since achieving independence from Yugoslavia. Yesterday, the
German President had concluded his visit to Macedonia.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-5>
<H1>
Severe austerity measures planned in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg CDU and FDP coalition state government
is not planning to increase public borrowing in the 1997 budget, despite
the threat of a billion-mark gap in it. According to the dpa wire
service, state cabinet agreed at a meeting behind closed doors in
Saulgau today to not take on loans above the planned 1.6 million marks.
The budget gap of at least 2.2 billion is going to be made up for by
strict austerity measures. For example, the already approved new teacher
jobs will be cancelled. The police force will also not be able to
recruit any new members. Despite initial discussions however, the
subsidies for staffing costs at child-care centres will not be cut.
Cabinet plans to have its savings course of action ready by tomorrow.
Meanwhile, parties and teachers' associations have called on the state
government to abolish its strict savings measures. SPD state leader
Maurer said the savings plans were chaotic and could hardly be surpassed
in injustice. Several teacher organisations warned against cuts to the
number of teaching positions.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-6>
<H1>
Compromise in sight in railways wage bargaining talks
</H1>
A solution has become a distinct possibility in the wage
bargaining talks covering German railways employees. The executive board
of the Union of Railways Employees has decided to continue negotiations
with the "Deutsche Bahn AG" German railways corporation on the basis of
the arbitration committee's recommendation of last weekend. Among other
things, the recommendation is for a 1.3% wage increase from May 1997 for
the circa 180,000 railways employees. A further approximation to the
western level is planned for eastern German employees. According to the
union, the talks with the Bahn AG will recommence in Frankfurt tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-7>
<H1>
Bundesrat likely to move to Berlin in 2000 after all
</H1>
The Bundesrat upper house of parliament now will move to Berlin
after all in or around the year 2000, just like the Bundestag lower
house. 13 of the 16 German "Laender" states agreed on a corresponding
proposal, to be tabled in the upper house next week and to be passed by
the end of September. In 1991, the Bundesrat had decided to remain in
Bonn in contrast with the Bundesrat and the government. However, it had
reserved the right to review this decision at a later date.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-8>
<H1>
Final complaint against extension of B31 autobahn rejected
</H1>
The Federal Administrative Court in Berlin has rejected the
last possible appeal against the extension of the B31 autobahn southeast
of Freiburg. After hearing of the decision today, opponents of the
project, which had caused controvery for decades, announced actions to
disrupt the start of construction work. Freiburg Mayor Boehme said he
was expecting work on the extension between Freiburg and Kirchzarten
to begin soon.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-9>
<H1>
US Consulate General in Stuttgart closes
</H1>
The US Consulate General in Stuttgart will permanently close
its doors tomorrow for budget reasons. In the future, the Consulate
General in Frankfurt will be responsible for Baden-Wuerttemberg.
According to the US Embassy in Bonn, the closing down is not due to
waning interest. Rather, the USA were looking forward to still being
represented in Baden-Wuerttemberg in the areas of commerce, culture and
defence.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-10>
<H1>
Willi Weber convicted of tax fraud
</H1>
Willi Weber, business manager of Formula One world champion
Michael Schumacher, has been sentenced to a fine of 250,000 marks for
tax fraud by the Stuttgart District Court. The court said Weber had sold
a Ferrari to a buyer in Japan without declaring the resulting profit to
the tax office. A spokesperson for the public prosecutor's office
emphasised that there was no connection whatsoever between the car deal
and Weber's management activities for Schumacher. Among Weber's other
clients is "supermodel" Claudia Schiffer.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-11>
<H1>
Soccer: Matthias Sammer Germany's "Football Player of the Year"
</H1>
Matthias Sammer has been voted German "Footballer Player of
the Year" for the second year running by the German sports media. The
29-year-old international, who plays for Borussia Dortmund, beat off
competition from Juergen Klinsmann and Andreas Koepke to reach top spot.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-11-12>
<H1>
Soccer: UEFA Cup
</H1>
This is how the German teams fared in the first leg of the first round
of matches:

<P>

