<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-1>
<H1>
Schroeder formally nominated as the SPD candidate for chancellor
</H1>
One day after his sound election victory in Lower Saxony, State Premier
Gerhard Schroeder was formally nominated as the SPD candidate for
chancellor. The decision of the leading committees in Bonn was almost
unanimous. It will be presented to the national party conference in
Leipzig in April. Schroeder clarified that he will also claim leadership
regarding contents:  many votes in Lower Saxony were taken from the
political centre, and he intends to repeat this on a federal level.

<P>
In an interview with "Stern" magazine, Schroeder emphasised that he
would further perform'reality tests'of party decisions. The new
candidate for chancellor again acknowledged the efforts of SPD Chairman
Oskar Lafontaine for integration. He called the cooperation with
Lafontaine indispensable for success.

<P>
CDU Chairman Chancellor Helmut Kohl protested rumours that his own party
wanted to replace him as candidate. Nobody in the party leadership had
demanded a different candidate for chancellor.  Whoever spread these
rumours on the quiet should come forward and make the demand public.
Kohl announced that he would have tough debates with Schroeder, and that
he would show voters that Schroeder still fails to give definitive
answers to definitive questions.   The deputy CDU Chairman Heiner
Geissler, however, said that the Chancellor should take the Lower Saxony
election results as an opportunity to consider the situation.

<P>
The cabinet in Hanover, where the SPD remains able to govern with an
absolute majority, will be reorganised. The head of the government,
Schroeder, said that Environmental Minister Monika Griefahn would not
take a position because of her candidacy for the Bundestag and that
Culture Minister Wernstedt is considered as president of the state
parliament.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-2>
<H1>
Reactions on state elections in Lower Saxony
</H1>
In Bonn, all parties--from CDU and FDP to the Greens--analysed the SPD
victory as the result of the unique constellation which made the Lower
Saxony elections a kind of a referendum for the SPD candidate for
chancellor. The Chancellor's analysis of the elections is similar.
Within this context, Helmut Kohl said, it had been almost impossible to
discuss factual questions. This would have to change now. Concrete
questions needed to be asked about what Schroeder and the SPD intend to
do in certain areas of politics, and definite answers would be expected,
Kohl said and continued to say that Schroeder was known to be evasive.
The new positions for Kohl, with Schroeder as challenger, remain the
same: CDU and FDP against a red-green coalition,  which Kohl says he
wants to prevent by all means. It was stated repeatedly by the CDU and
FDP that Kohl was the coalition's candidate for chancellor. The
leadership of these two parties refused today to discuss whether
Wolfgang Schaeuble should be nominated as the coalition's candidate
instead of Kohl.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-3>
<H1>
DAG and OeTV organise token strike
</H1>
Numerous token strikes in the public sercives demonstrated that the
unions are ready for battle. Protest activities in bus transportation,
employment offices, administrations, garbage collections, and schools
took place in 150 cities and with 60,000 workers participating. The
token strikes are to be continued tomorrow, simultaneous with the next
rounds of negotiations. The unions OeTV (union for public service and
transportation) and DAG (national union of employees) have demands
totalling a raise of 4.5%. Employers have as yet not made an offer.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-4>
<H1>
Administrative court Hanover passes judgement against spelling reform
</H1>
As the second court in the main prodeedings, the administrative court of
Hanover has rejected the introduction of the controversial orthography
reform, sustaining a suit filed by a mother from Oldenburg who wanted to
prevent that her daughter be educated using the new spelling rules. The
court reasoned that an agreement of the culture ministers on the
introduction of the spelling reform was insufficient.  A legal basis for
such a reform would be required. This judgement upholds the Chamber's
granting of an injunction of last August. The Berlin administrative
court had also ruled against the introduction of the reforms in a main
prodeeding .

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-5>
<H1>
Welfare Minister Hildebrand accused of embezzlement
</H1>
The public prosecution in Potsdam has started investigations of
Brandenburg's Welfare Minister Hildebrand. According to the prosecution,
there is sufficient suspicion that the SPD politician took part in the
embezzlement of millions of marks in support payments.  Former Finance
Minister Kuehbacher and Secretary of State Mentrup are also being
investigated in this context. A spokesperson for the welfare ministry
rejected the suspicion of embezzlement against Mrs.  Hildebrand.
Although there had been violations of the budgetary law within the
ministry, nobody had personally enriched oneself.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-6>
<H1>
Federal government confirms irreversibility of expropriations in SBZ
</H1>
The federal government confirms its decision that the expropriations in
the former Soviet-occupied Zone (SBZ) during 1945-1949 are
irreversibile. The Secretary of the Chancellor's Office, Friedrich Bohl,
reacted to recent comments made by former Soviet Premier Mikhail
Gorbatchev. Gorbatchev had emphasised in Berlin that the question of
land reform had not played a role in the process of the German
unification, and hence one would not have to hold on to it.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-7>
<H1>
Toxic waste trial begins in Frankfurt/Main
</H1>
One of the largest toxic waste scandals in Germany is heard at the
regional court at Frankfurt/Main. The public prosecution accuses the
seven defendants of having illegally removed large amounts of toxic
waste between 1991 and 1996, and to have made profits of millions of
marks. The men are also accused of forming a criminal organisation.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-02-8>
<H1>
"Schimanski" sues for damages
</H1>
Today, the actor Goetz George, known as "Inspector Schimanski",
testified in a compensation case at Munich regional court. George had
been seriously injured by a motorboat whilst swimming. The actor
demanded more than DM1 million in damages. The court adjourned after a
short trial and ordered to find out whether in Italy, the site of the
accident, the snorkler George should have used a clearly visible
'warning balloon', as it is required for divers.

