<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-1>
<H1>
President Herzog won't speak in front of Russian parliament
</H1>
German president Roman Herzog will not be allowed to give
a speech to the assembled parliament during his state visit to
Russia. The Russian communist party has only allowed Mr. Herzog to
speak with several committees during the first meeting of the
parliament after its summer break this coming Wednesday. The
communists are upset by the verdict in the trial of the former GDR
state and party head, Egon Krenz. Several days ago in Berlin, Mr.
Krenz had been sentenced to six and a half years in prison for
manslaughter in the cases of GDR refugees. Mr. Herzog's visit to
Russia is scheduled to being tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-2>
<H1>
Mr. Schaeuble called to publish his GDR contacts
</H1>
The former GDR human rights activist Mr. Ullmann has called
the chair of the CDU/CSU parliamentary group Mr. Schaeuble to make
public his contacts with leading functionaries in the former GDR.
In an interview with the news magazine DER SPIEGEL, Mr. Ullmann,
who is now the European envoy for the Greens, accused Mr.
Schaeuble of protecting GDR foreign revenues procurer Mr. Schalck-
Golodkowski. Mr. Ullmann further lamented that the federal
government was keeping many files about the former relations
between East and West Germany under lock and key.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-3>
<H1>
DGB expects 5 million unemployed this winter
</H1>
The German Association of Unions (DGB) expects that the number of
unemployed will rise to five million this coming winter. DGB chair
Ms. Engelen-Kefer told the NEUE OSNABRUECKER ZEITUNG that this was
going to be especially likely in the case of prolonged cold
spells. Ms. Engelen-Kefer added that currently there were no
political measures in place that would bring about a reversal in
trends in the employment market. She called the federal government
to raise its subsidies to the Federal Labor Office by 4 billion
Marks in the coming year, in order to reduce unemployment among
youths, as well as long-term unemployment. Ms. Engelen-Kefer
suggested that the extra money be used to finance continuing
education, training for career changes, and adjustment aids.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-4>
<H1>
Mr. Ruettgers calls industries to create more apprenticeships
</H1>
Minister of Education Ruettgers has again called on the economic
sector to offer more apprenticeship positions. Mr. Ruettgers told
the radio station DEUTSCHLANDRADIO BERLIN that the government had
created the necessary basis for more positions. The CDU politician
did not support the demands of the SPD and the German association
of unions for additional taxation of those companies that did not
offer training positions.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-5>
<H1>
Bluem will push pension reform through by himself if necessary
</H1>
Minister of Employment Bluem is determined to implement the
pension reform this coming year, even if he will have to do it
alone. In an interview with the DEUTSCHLANDRADIO, Bluem said that
he was still hoping to reach consensus with the opposition and
that he was prepared to fight for a compromise. He defended the
proposal to implement the reform early, in 1998. Bluem expects
that this will mean no raise in pensions for those retired in West
Germany for one year. The CDU member further called for a
restructuring and re-financing of the current pension system. For
example, he promoted the idea of stabilizing pension plan payments
with federal subsidies. These subsidies could be financed with a
one per-cent increase in the value-added tax, said Bluem.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-6>
<H1>
Great surveillance attack meets with criticism
</H1>
FDP member Mr. Hirsch has voiced criticism of the agreement of
coalition and SPD concerning the so-called great surveillance
attack. In an interview with the WESTDEUTSCHE ALLEGEMEINE ZEITUNG
he noted that the measures planned were insufficient. At the same
time, he was concerned that an audio supervision of living
quarters would primarily affect those uninvolved in any illegal
actions. Mr. Hirsch stressed that in his opinion the surveillance
attack was just the beginning and that everything else would
tumble in its wake. Further criticism of the compromise was voiced
by Buendnis 90/The Greens. Minister of Justice Schmidt-Jortzig
said yesterday that the catalog of measures might be signed into
law before the end of this year. However, this could only happen
if changes were made to the constitution which limited the
inviolability of personal homes.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-7>
<H1>
Disagreements between CSU and CDU/FDP continue
</H1>
The disagreements between the CSU and its coalition partners
CDU and FDP continue. CSU General Secretary Protzner refused the
accusation made by FDP Chairman Gerhardt that the CSU Chair Waigel
was without concern for others to have started a discussion about
a cabinet reshuffle in the middle of an important phase of the
Hamburg election campaigns. East German politicians who are
members of the CDU also criticized the CSU and along with Minister
of the Chancellor's Office Bohl called for an end to the personnel
discussions. The CDU members believed that it was now time to
return to an objective working style.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-8>
<H1>
Boetsch visits India
</H1>
During the next ten years, hundreds of satellites are scheduled to
be brought into space. The largest telecommunications, computer,
and electronics companies are working to secure their portion of
the world-wide communications market. These companies are
expecting rising demands especially in Asia. China and India, for
example, are known to have under-developed communications
industries. The minister of the postal service now hopes to do his
part in making sure that German companies benefit from the rising
demand for telecommunications in these countries. During one last
major business trip before the dissolution of the ministry of the
postal service, Minister Wolfgang Boetsch, heading a large
delegation of economists, is flying to India today. Mr. Boetsch
hopes to contribute to opening to German companies a
telecommunications market that is currently considered one of the
least developed in the world but rated by experts to have an
especially high growth potential. Mr. Boetsch plans to promote a
further opening of the market in India's capital New Delhi, which
is one condition that needs to be fulfilled before foreign
companies, such as German ones, can enter it. In the following,
Mr. Boetsch will visit "India's Silicon Valley" Bangalor. The
delegation will return to Germany on Thursday.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-9>
<H1>
Association of Postal Customers declares price increases illegal
</H1>
The higher postal rates, which will go into effect on
Monday, are not legally founded notes the Association of Postal
Customers. Association chair Mr. Huebner said that the raises in
postage should never have been passed. Mr. Huebner explained that
the raises were to be considered illegal since the letter division
of the postal service closed with net wins of 1.7 billion Marks
last year. The higher rates would mean an additional 1.6 billion
Mark gain. Mr. Huebner added that the postal service needed the
extra money to make up for losses in its parcel post division. On
Monday, the postage for a standard letter, among others, will go
up to 1.10 Marks.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-10>
<H1>
EU experts suspect more British beef on the market than thought
</H1>
Experts of the European Union believe that significantly more
British beef than previously assumed is being sold in Europe. The
general director for consumer protection, Mr. Reichenbach, told
the news magazine FOCUS that analyses had shown that the illegal
trade with beef possibly infected with BSE was tightly networked
across borders. In addition, a supervision of the exports ban in
Great Britain alone was insufficient said Mr. Reichenbach. He
added that deficiencies had been observed in all EU member states,
including Germany.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-11>
<H1>
Environmental Protection Agency blames agriculture for floods
</H1>
In the opinion of the Environmental Protection Agency of
Germany, excessive farming is one of the causes of the recent
catastrophic floods. The agency's vice president said in Potsdam
that the industrial production methods of modern agriculture were
wearing out the soil. He explained that healthy soil was
constantly being loosened by earth worms and other small animals,
which allowed rain water to be absorbed by the ground. Pesticides
and heavy farming equipment destroy these organisms and bring
about an extreme compression of the soil. Rivers cannot take up
all rain water running off the fields, especially since wetlands
were increasingly being built over.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-12>
<H1>
Parents to take on responsibility for children's crimes
</H1>
The union of police officers demands that parents be held
responsible for crimes committed by their children more so than
they have been until now. Union Chair Lutz said in an interview
with BILD AM SONNTAG that if children committed robbery, arson, or
murder, their parents had to be held responsible for these
violations. Mr. Lutz explained that under current law, parents are
only guilty of neglecting their educational responsibility in such
cases, while they should really be guilty of actively aiding these
crimes. Mr. Lutz called to add this definition of parental
responsibility to the criminal code. On the other hand, he
considered committing criminal youths to prisons or youth
reformatory institutions the wrong approach to solving the
problem. Mr. Lutz suggested to give the children a greater chance
of rectification, instead.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-13>
<H1>
Demonstrations against evictions in Karlsruhe occupied houses
</H1>
About five hundred people have demonstrated against the
eviction of people occupying houses in the Stephanienstrasse
today. The demonstration was held in the center of town and was
completed without violence.JThe demonstrators stressed that they
were ready to resume discussion about an alternative project
offered by the city. A decision is expected on Monday.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-14>
<H1>
6.6 million drivers in Flensburg traffic offenses database
</H1>
Because of an increase in offenses carrying a fine, the
number of drivers registered in the Flensburg offenses database
has climbed by 3.3 per cent to 6.6 million during the first half
of 1997. The departments of motor vehicles, fine collection
agencies, and courts of law have submitted to the Flensburg
federal office of motor vehicles 2 million requests for violation
registrations until now during 1997, an increase of 123,000 over
the same period last year. Once registered in Flensburg, a
driver's licensee carries penalty points that remain associated
with it for a certain length of time. Until the end of June, 1.3
million drivers were newly admitted to the database, while only
1.1 million registrations expired.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-30-15>
<H1>
Summer travel declining
</H1>
The wave of summer travelers is slowly declining. However,
motorists should expect heavy traffic during the current weekend,
still. The reason is the end of school vacation in two German
Laender, as well as in the South of the Netherlands and in
Belgium. At the same time, the German Automobile Association is
expecting a wave of late vacationers driving South.

