<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-1>
<H1>
German stock market recovers
</H1>
Following strong price rises in the international finance markets, the
German stock market, like many others, recovered most of the previous
days' substantial losses today.  At the end of trading in Frankfurt am
Main, the DAX stood at 3791 points, having increased over 6%.  The
issues in greatest demand were those that had absorbed the greatest
losses yesterday.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-2>
<H1>
Fischer criticizes his party's left wing
</H1>
Joschka Fischer, speaker for the parliamentary faction of Buendnis
90/The Green Party, discounted any possible participation in the
government for his party if they continue to call for dissolution of
NATO. Those are not willing to stand by Germany's treaty obligations,
such as membership in the western alliance, should not govern.  With
this comment, in the newspaper "Berliner Tageszeitung", Fischer took
up a renewed position against the left wing, who have pushed through
their outline for the Greens' election platform. Among other things,
the outline calls for withdrawal from NATO and a drastic increase of
petrol prices.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-3>
<H1>
Defense committee discusses Eurofighter and army videos
</H1>
The defense committee of the Bundestag has come out in favor of the
construction of the Eurofighter, a European military aircraft that has
been fiercely controversial for years. Volker Ruehe, the federal
Minister of Defense, said that the financing for it is assured.  The
German armed forces want to buy 180 of the aircraft for around DM 23
Billion. The representatives of the SPD as well as the Green Party and
the PDS voted against the procurement of the aircraft.  The Social
Democrats justify this based on the costs, and the question if such an
aircraft suits the security policy of the country. In a show of hands
yesterday, several SPD representatives had voted in favor of the
purchase. The military experts of the FDP agreed to the purchase of
the plane with unanimity.  Previously, the majority of the so-called
grant committee had also given the green light. However, the
centerpiece of today's committee session were the videos of radical
right extremism in the German armed forces.  Volker Ruehe has said
that he received support for his plan to screen military conscripts
for past right wing radicalism from the SPD, above all.  Conflict in
the coalition is impending; Minister of Justice Schmidt-Jortzig has
objections based on privacy rights.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-4>
<H1>
Budget committee grants additional DM 40 million for Berlin move
</H1>
The budget committee of the Bundestag today granted 40 million extra
for the move to Berlin.  600 provisional office spaces for
representatives can now be renovated and rented.  President of the
Bundestag, Suessmuth, was pleased by the promise, and outlined for
those who criticize the additional costs, that a complete move of the
Parliament to Berlin would remove office rents in Bonn.  In addition,
said Suessmuth, there would be no costs for commuting.  In spite of
this, if you add the monies approved just before the summer recess,
the taxpayers must provide DM 50 million for the transitional offices
of their representatives.  The earliest the new permanent
accommodations will be ready to move into is the year 2000.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-5>
<H1>
Federal cabinet agrees new bill for management of cartels
</H1>
The federal cabinet has agreed a new parliamentary bill on the
management of cartels in a move to adapt German cartel law to conform
with European law. One important point to come from the bill is that
even just the discussion of a cartel arrangement is to become illegal;
up until now, a cartel agreement only became illegal when it was put
into practice. Not all of the points of disagreement between the
Finance minister and the CSU have been resolved, however - the
coalition intend to discuss the question as to whether there should be
a special arrangement for competition in trade and commerce during the
deliberations in the Bundestag. The CSU insist that there should be
special regulations in this regard, but Rexrodt, the finance minister,
believes that this would be somewhat dubious and impracticable. An
agreement could be reached on other points, however, including a ban
on particularly extreme cases involving companies selling products
below cost price with the aim of forcing another company to go bust.
Rexrodt hopes that the Bundestag will pass the bill before the general
elections, so that it can become law at the start of 1999.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-6>
<H1>
Government moves to restrict "DM 610" jobs
</H1>
The executive of the CDU has instructed Norbert Blum, the federal
Minister for Employment, to work out a concept by which so-called "DM
610" jobs (for which no social security payments are made) can be
restricted. Hintze, the general secretary of the CDU, announced at a
meeting of the executive in Bonn yesterday that the party thinks that
action must be taken in this regard during the current parliament. The
Bundestag is to debate the possible restriction of this kind of job
following an application from the SPD. The FDP has also re-emphasised
its own position on the issue: that "DM 610" jobs should be retained.
Representatives from the SPD announced that the party was ready to
agree to any "sensible compromise" on the issue.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-7>
<H1>
Barschel case to be closed
</H1>
Ten years after the death of Uwe Barschel, the former Prime Minister
of Schleswig-Holstein, an end to investigation on the case is in
sight. Walter (sp?), the Minister of Justice for Schleswig-Holstein,
has announced that the so-called 'Mafia connection' is to be followed
up in the near future, but if this provides no leads, then the case
will be closed. Walter said that no breakthrough has yet been made in
the case, especially in regard to the hypothesis that Barschel was
murdered.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-8>
<H1>
CSU maintains its opposition to dual citizenship
</H1>
The CSU is maintaining its opposition to the introduction of dual
citizenship for the children of non-German citizens who are born in
Germany. Zeitelmann (sp?), the spokesman for the CSU state group in
the Bundestag, said today in an interview with the 'Deutschlandfunk'
radio station that this was not a good solution. He is worried that
those affected would not make a final choice for one of the two
citizenships later in their lives. He suggested a compromise whereby
those non-German citizens who are born in Germany should be given a
guarantee that they could become naturalised German citizens later.
The leadership of the CDU has also declared that it will maintain its
opposition to dual citizenship. General Secretary Hintze said that he
does not believe that a cross-party agreement can be achieved on the
issue.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-29-9>
<H1>
The "six wise men" present their economic predictions
</H1>
The "six wise men" (that is, the six leading German economic research
institutes) have predicted that the German economy will improve, but
also that unemployment will rise. The experts at the institutes expect
that there will be an average of 4.4 million unemployed next year.

