<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-1>
<H1>
Heated Phase of the Election Campaign begins in Lower Saxony
</H1>
The heated phase of the election campaign in Lower Saxony began today.
The CDU sent their top candidate Christian Wulf into the race against
State Premier Gerhard Schroeder. German Chancellor Helmut Kohl was the
guest speaker at today's CDU opening event. CDU top candidate Christian
Wulf received backing from the Chancellor five weeks before the State
Parliament elections in Lower Saxony. Said Kohl, "He is the right man for
the job, since he knows the state and the people, their hopes, their
dreams, their worries, and what needs to be done. After the years
under Schroeder, the most important thing is a State Premier who has
earned their trust, whose word counts." Helmut Kohl will appear a total of
eight times in Lower Saxony until March 1, as part of the election
campaign. The Chancellor reinforced the importance of this state
parliamentary election before the September election of the Bundestag
with a detailed speech on the foreign and domestic political situations.
Using the tax reform as an example, he demonstrated how important a change
in government in Lower Saxony is, because it could tip the SPD majority in
the Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-2>
<H1>
Grand Bugging Attack in Danger
</H1>
Critics of the so-called "Grand Bugging Attack" have reason for hope. Although
the legal committee of the Bundesrat recommended that the states approve the
necessary changes in the "Grundgesetz" (constitution), it is very
questionable whether they will all follow the recommendations. The
shakiest candidate is Bremen. According to SPD regional parliament leader
Albers, Bremen, which governed by a large coalition, does not want to
approve the Bugging Attack in the Bundesrat. An improvement to the
compromise is necessary, said Albers. At this point, it looks like
the Bugging Attack will end up being discussed in the Mediation Committee
of the Bundestag and Bundesrat. SPD President Oskar Lafontaine has phoned
Mayor Henning Scherf many times in the last few days, but he could not get
him to change his mind. There are, however, supporters of the Grand
Bugging Attack among the Bremen Social Democrats. State parliament SPD
leader Weber, despite his colleagues' opinions in the Senate, spoke in
favor of the changes in the Grundgesetz. "I can only recommend to the
Senate that they approve a specific compromise in the Bugging Attack. I
think what has been negotiated can not be improved by the present party
line-up or the Coalition in Bonn. I hope that when the SPD gets the
majority in the Bundestag elections, they can even make some necessary
improvements." Bremen will probably play a key role in approval of the
Grand Bugging Attack, since the Red-Green coalition-led states have
announced that they will vote against the changes in the "Grundgesetz."

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-3>
<H1>
More SS Officers In Court for Shooting Hostages?
</H1>
In addition to Erich Priebke and Karl Hass, another one-time SS officer,
Austrian Wilhelm Schubernik, may have to accept responsibility for
shooting hostages in the Adriatic caves near Rome. Priebke and Hass were
sentenced to several years in prison last November. Schubernik could also
be taken to court, although he has yet to be officially charged. The
leading public prosecutor in Klagenfurt said on Austrian radio that the
Italian judges have asked for legal help. The investigations have not
progressed very far according to the state prosecutor. The Austrian
government authorities do not yet have access to all of the documents on
the events of 1944, and Wilhelm Schubernik, who is seriously ill, has not
yet been questioned. It is not yet clear if the man, who lives in St. Veit
in Carinthia, is also responsible for the massacre in the Adriatic caves.
According to the Italian newspaper "La Republica", his name is listed among
a total of twelve officers who, together with Erich Priebke, supposedly
took part in the hostage shootings.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-4>
<H1>
Demonstration against "Wehrmacht" exhibition in Dresden
</H1>
More than 3,000 police and members of the Bundesgrenzschutz (border
guards) have separated two demonstrations in the Saxon state capital.
Several hundred NPD supporters protested against the controversial
"Wehrmacht" (military of the Third Reich) exhibition, which is currently
in Dresden. A separate counter-demonstration with a thousand participants
also took place. The Dresden Coalition against the Right, whose
participants included members of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, and
union members, called for the counter-demonstration. There were no clashes
other than a fist fight between youth from both camps on a train from
Leipzig to Dresden.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-5>
<H1>
Financial Situation in Baden-Wuerttemberg Worse than Expected
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg state government will deal with the state
financial situation again on Monday. According to a paper of the Minister
of Finance, which was made public by the "Sueddeutscher Rundfunk" radio
station, the financial situation is worse than the government thought. It
was assumed that new debts of 750 million DM will be incurred in the year
2000. According to the paper, the Ministry of Finance figures that 2.2
billion DM in credit will have to be raised, and it should be 2.1 billion
DM in the year 2001. Some reasons cited for the poor financial situation
include higher personnel costs as well as tax losses. The government plans
to save on personnel costs, but the taxpayers' association ("Bund der
Steuerzahler") has to first change the necessary laws.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-6>
<H1>
1997 Million Surplus for Health Insurance Companies
</H1>
The state-funded health insurance companies in
Baden-Wuerttemberg could possibly be faced with a million DM surplus for
the past year according to the regional statistical authorities. According
to their calculations, which covered the first nine months of the past
year, the companies earned almost 15.2 billion DM, while 15.1 billion DM
was spent. Some reasons include reductions in the areas of hospital
treatment, medication, sick pay, and cures (health resort or spa
treatments).

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-7>
<H1>
Demonstration for More Work Places and Social Equality
</H1>
Students and employees protested today for more work places,
improvements in the educational system, and social equality. Approximately
2,000 people participated in the protests. The German federation of
unions, the general student committee of universities, and the works
committee of Boeringer and ABB, whose jobs are threatened, called
for the protest.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-24-8>
<H1>
Tobogganing World Cup Finale Results in Winterberg
</H1>
The Huber brothers from Italy foiled the first victory plans of
the German men's team in the Tobogganing World Cup today. Georg Hackel
took third place in the Finale behind Wilfried and Norbert Huber. The
Italian Armin Zoeggeler assured the Italians the World Cup by placing
fourth in the Finale.

