<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-1>
<H1>
Turkish State Premier visits Germany
</H1>
The Turkish State Premier Yilmaz started his two-day visit to
Bonn. He first met with German business representatives. Tomorrow
Yilmaz will be officially welcomed by Chancellor Kohl. In addition to
economic cooperation, the second main topic is Turkey's joining the
European Union. In a speech to entrepreneurs Yilmaz said that it would
be unfair and a strategic mistake to exclude Turkey from the process of
expanding the EU. He did not mention a schedule for Turkey to join the
EU. Before his departure, Yilmaz had again emphasized Turkey's desire
to join the EU.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-2>
<H1>
Speedy agreement on reduction of solidarity tax sought
</H1>
CDU, CSU and FDP are willing to find an agreement to counterfinance the reduction of the solidarity tax, planned to go into effect
next year, as quickly as possible. The coalition will present a
schedule for the negotiation talks tomorrow. Politicians from the
coalition confirmed that the introduction of an insurance tax for life
insurances is one of the points to be discussed. There is a
disagreement on the planned net relief. Finance Minister Theo Waigel
pointed out that the 1998 budget would not allow a reduction without
any counter-financing. The FDP expects difficult negotiations.
Following a meeting of the executive board, FDP secretary general Guido
Westerwelle said that the coalition should push through any relief
benefitting businesses and tax-payers that could be passed without SPD
consent. He said that the coalition was under obligation to the FDP and
that he therefore believed the FDP would succeed.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-3>
<H1>
Kinkel criticizes Taliban
</H1>
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel harshly criticized the
temporary arrest of EU Commissary Bonino in Afghanistan. Kinkel called
the reason for the arrest unbelievable and despicable. Members of the
delegation had been accused of having photographed women without
permission. Kinkel said the incident illustrated the grotesque view the
rulers in Afghanistan had of the role of women. Meanwhile, Bonino
reported that she was threatened by men armed with Kalashnikovs.
Members of international relief organizations accompanying her were
beaten with rifles. The authorities in Afghanistan, which are
controlled by the radical-Islamic Taliban, have apologized to the EU
Comissary.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-4>
<H1>
Agreement on reduced hours for older workers finds approval
</H1>
The settlement on part-time employment of workers of mature age in
the Southwestern German metal industry met with positive reactions all
over Germany. In many bargaining districts the employers and the union
for metal, engineering and electronics (IG Metall) announced to strive
for similar agreements. Union spokesmen stated that the part-time
employment model should also be transferred to other lines of business.
The vice chair of the association of industrial unions (DGB), Engelen-
Kefer, called the compromise an important step in the struggle against
unemployment. The general executive manager of the national employers'
confederation, Goehner, considered the collective wage agreement an
"indicator for the future." The Deutsche Bahn AG also offered the
unions negotiations on part-time employment of mature age workers and
early retirement. In addition, an overall compensation agreement should
encourage employees to retire this year.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-5>
<H1>
Toepfer: Social housing assistance to be revised soon
</H1>
The Federal Minister of Building and Construction, Toepfer, wants
to get the proposed supplementary law on social housing assistance
passed in this legislative period. In a newspaper interview he said
that currently, a survey is trying to determine whether low-income
families who are ineligible for social welfare assistance should be
able to receive housing assistance. The financial resources had to be
spent more appropriately. According to Toepfer, the talks with the
State Finance Ministers should conclude by the end of the year.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-6>
<H1>
Debate on Eastern German health insurance budget deficit
</H1>
Eastern German SPD politicians demanded federal
financial compensation for the Eastern and Western German health
insurance companies. At a meeting in Erfurt, the health policy
spokespersons of the SPD state assembly factions declared that the
legal premises for such a risk equity payment had to be realized by
January 1, 1998. This would be the only way to reduce the Eastern
German deficit, which rose to 1.2 billion marks during the first half
of 1997. The Allgemeine Ortkrankenkassen (AOK) insurance company
announced its willingness to relieve its Eastern state associations
with a solidarity fund. According to AOK federal secretary-general
Ahrends, the Western associations should pay 0.1% of their collected
contributions to the Eastern insurances. A coalition proposal to use
bank loans to save the insurance companies from financial collapse was
rejected. A spokesperson for the Federal Ministry of Health had
confirmed corresponding reports. The loans are intended to prevent an
increase of premiums until the legislative finds a different solution.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-7>
<H1>
70 persons injured in bus accident
</H1>
Two passengers were seriously injured and 70 other suffered
minor injuries in a bus accident on the A9 autobahn. According to the
police, the bus had to brake unexpectedly at a construction site. Three
busses following behind ran into the site of the crash. One driver and
one tour guide were stuck in the vehicles and suffered serious injuries.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-8>
<H1>
Telekom renews negotiations with competitors
</H1>
Deutsche Telekom will make a new offer to its competitors
regarding direct access to telephone lines. This was announced by the
Higher Administrative Court in Muenster after evaluation talks it had
ordered between Deutsche Telekom and its competitors. According to the
court, Telekom gave in after judges indicated that they leaned toward
the Post Ministry's legal interpretation. The ministry had urged
Telekom to offer direct access to individual lines to its competitors.
The Post Ministry will refrain from entering legal proceedings if
Telekom makes suitable offers within two weeks.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-29-9>
<H1>
Tender for Lufthansa shares
</H1>
The privatization of the Deutsche Lufthansa has reached its final
stage. CEO Juergen Weber, the German government and the participating
banks announced the start of a tender with a period of two weeks for
shares previously owned by the German government. After the sale of
Telekom, this is the second largest issue of shares in the history of
the Federal Republic of Germany. Investors can order shares by October
10 via their banks, and from October 13 on these shares will be at the
stock market. The price for the shares will be announced just before
that date and is expected to be close to the current stock market
price. Private investors receive a reduction of 1 mark per share. CEO
Weber signalled to current and new shareholders that there might be a
higher dividend for this year. According to Weber, in 1997 Lufthansa
will work out the biggest profit in its history.

