<DOC de-news-1997-07-06-1>
<H1>
Ruehe supports so-called "smaller solution" for NATO expansion
</H1>
The German Defense Minister, Volker Ruehe, has expressed his support for the
so-called "smaller solution" for the eastward expansion of NATO. Mr. Ruehe
said on the ZDF television program "Bonn direct" that he believes only
three new members should be accepted into the alliance. This would be
easier for NATO to process. The NATO summit in Madrid commences on Tuesday.
In the same broadcast, Mr. Ruehe also confirmed that he and Theo Waigel
(Minister of Finance) had reached agreement regarding the Eurofighter. He
said that the financing of the Eurofighter airplane has been ensured and
the budget for this area has been set, although he did not want to name
any figures. Mr. Ruehe continued that the budget for the Ministry of
Defense was higher than last year's, but lower than originally planned.
Thus, his Ministry had made its contribution towards budgetary savings.
Mr. Ruehe also said that the current scandal regarding a video of Bundeswehr
soldiers (German armed forces) involved in arbitrary executions and rapes
in Bosnia will be thoroughly investigated.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-06-2>
<H1>
Construction industry: no wage increases in East German states
</H1>
Employers in the construction industry are not prepared to increase wages
in the former East German states. Mr. Kuechle, the vice-president of the
German Building Contractors' Association, said to the "Leipziger
Volkszeitung" newspaper that wages in the East will remain at 95% of
those in the West. He continued that the goal of the wage negotiations
was to keep wages at the same level, as the industry could count on
losing about 80 to 100,000 jobs this year. However, the construction
industry itself was optimistic. The head of the DividAG building concern
said to the "Handelsblatt" newspaper that there were still opportunities to
make profits in the industry. He recommended that the industry become
more involved in overseas projects and be more innovative with regard to
inexpensive building.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-06-3>
<H1>
Election of Mayor in Buehl
</H1>
Hans Striebl of the CDU has defeated the current Mayor, Mr. Helbing
of the SPD, in the elections for Mayor in Buehl, Bavaria. Mr. Striebl
obtained 51,7 percent of the vote in the first round. Mr. Helbing only
got 46,4 percent of the vote. There was a 59 percent turnout.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-06-4>
<H1>
Massive traffic obstruction after heavy rains
</H1>
Continual heavy rains on Saturday and Sunday in areas bordering
the Alps have led to massive obstruction of traffic. One lane of the
Riedberg Pass had to be closed after mud slides. An avalanche of rocks
and mud totally blocked the B2 from Mittenwald in the area of Scharnitz
in Austria on Sunday morning. The railway line to and from Innsbruck was
closed as a precaution. Many roads in the area of Traunstein have been
flooded. According to the Bavarian Department for Water Affairs, the
Tirol Aachen, Mangfall, Salach, Salzach and Inn rivers are in danger of
flooding. In Passau, the Danube, the Inn and the Ilz have already broken
their banks. The authorities expect water levels to continue to rise.
Shipping on the Danube might have to be suspended.

