<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-1>
<H1>
Schaeuble to stand for reelection
</H1>
CDU Party Chair Wolfgang Schaeuble intends to stand for that office once
again. From Berlin, a speaker for Schaeuble made it clear that the party
leader intends to stand for reelection at the Christian Democratic party
congress in April. The CSU faction in the Bundestag asked its sister party
for further explanations regarding its ongoing donation scandal. In
particular, Schaeuble's statement regarding the 100,000 DM donation from
arms-dealer lobbyist Karlheinz Schreiber raises questions. Various leading
politicians within the CDU have thrown their support behind the leader.
Von Beuss, faction leader of the Christian Democrats in Hamburg, however,
indicated in a newspaper interview that Schaeuble can be replaced. The CDU
and CSU have a lot of good people, he said. CSU politician Gauweiler was
quoted by the newspaper "Augsburger Allgemeine" as saying that Schaeuble
would do a great service to all by resigning quickly. The "Berliner
Zeitung" newspaper reported that SPD party leader Schroeder is preparing
for a change in the CDU leadership. The Chancellor expects that the State
Premier of Saxony, Biedenkopf, will take over from Schaeuble. Meanwhile,
the television program "Kontraste" on the ARD network reported on a diary
containing notes by Schreiber. The diary refers to frequent contacts
between Schreiber and the treasurer of CDU at that time, Baumeister.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-2>
<H1>
100,000 DM in donations to regional CDU organizations went unrecorded
</H1>
The regional party organization of the CDU in Schleswig-Holstein received
approximately 165,000 DM during the 90's from a special account belonging
to then party head Helmut Kohl. A speaker for the national party
organization in Berlin said that 65,000 DM of that sum had been correctly
recorded in the party books. The additional 100,000 DM had been received
in cash by local party chief Henning, who passed away last year. This
amount was part of the approximately 1 million DM that the federal
parliamentary faction of the CDU had transferred to the rest of the party.
100,000 DM are said to have been funneled to the Christian Democrats in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in this way. From Kiel, CDU
Secretary-General Vadekohl (sp?) explained that the apparently related
monies that had been paid out had not been received by his party
organization. Meanwhile, the administration of the Bundestag has asked the
Hessian CDU to account for the origin of almost 13 million DM which had
been received between 1989 and 1996 through anonymous bequests.
Preliminary investigations by state prosecutors are already underway.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-3>
<H1>
Green party donation practice under legal scrutiny
</H1>
The national leadership of the Green party has called the former practice,
whereby party delegates in the federal parliament would pay 1000 DM per
month to the party from their tax-free expense accounts, a mistake. Party
Secretary Buettighofer, in a letter to all party members holding elected
office, said President of the Bundestag Thierse would be asked examine the
legality of the practice.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-4>
<H1>
Change in Green party leadership under discussion
</H1>
The Green party is looking at a possible change in its national leadership
this summer. Kuenast, leader of the Green party faction in the Berlin
state parliament, and her colleague from Baden-Wuerttemberg, Kuhn, have
given notice that they would like to stand for both Speaker positions at
the special party congress in June. However, they want the separation of
office and mandate annulled first. [The Green Party constitution currently
requires Green members of the Bundestag to resign their seats before
taking up a post in the party leadership, and vice-versa.] Current office
holders Radcke and Roestel have left open the issue of whether the
election will be a contested one.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-5>
<H1>
Germany economy comes in second to last for 1999
</H1>
Economic growth was weaker in Germany during the past year. According to
the Federal Office of Statistics, real growth of the GDP was only around
1.4%, compared with 1998 in which the growth was 2.2%. This puts Germany
in next to last place among members of the European Union in 1999, second
only to Italy. The numbers for the 4th quarter however, hint at a
favorable economic trend.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-6>
<H1>
HBV union demands 5.5% increase in wages and salary
</H1>
In the footsteps of the IG Metall trade union, the union for trade, bank,
and insurance employees (HBV) has also announced a demand of 5.5% for
coming round of wage negotiations. The lead negotiator for the union
alluded to the "stellar earnings" in that industry. The union intends to
negotiate job security measures for the approximately 470,000 employees in
the banking sector.

<DOC de-news-2000-01-12-7>
<H1>
Constitutional Court denies appeal, says Krenz must serve time
</H1>
Egon Krenz, last head of state and party leader of the former GDR (German
Democratic Republic), must begin serving his prison sentence immediately,
according to a decision of the Federal Constitutional Court. The attorney
for the former top SED party official said that his client will presumably
present himself at the Berlin-Hakenfelde penitentiary tomorrow. The judges
in Karlsruhe did not accept Krenz's appeal of his six-and-a-half year
sentence for his responsibility in the deaths of refugees from the GDR.

