<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-1>
<H1>
CDU/CSU: no need to raise Value Added Tax
</H1>
It has often been said that the current campaigning for the Bundestag
elections is lacking in political content and is too obsessed with
personalities and the public mood. It now seems that a discussion with
content has arisen concerning a possible increase in Value Added Tax
('VAT') [=sales tax]. Claudia Nolte, the Minister for the Family,
inadvertently raised the issue, and although other members of the
governing coalition strongly denied that any increase was planned, the
Ministry of Finance announced that an increase could not be completely
ruled out, but would probably not be necessary. It seems clear that
the government believes it will be possible to finance a tax reform to
cut direct taxes by DM 30 billion net per year without raising
indirect taxes, such as VAT. Wolfgang Gerhardt, the leader of the FDP,
said this morning "It's not just that Frau Nolte is wrong when she
says that we might have to raise VAT by one percent - I actually
believe that the coalition should cut back the original plans and go
for a DM 30 billion net reduction in tax without even thinking about
VAT or any tax increases." It seems that Finance Minister Theo Waigel
thinks that this approach is possible; he announced through a press
spokesperson that he believes the state's receipts and expenditure are
well enough developed for it. This announcement was also planned to
take the wind out of the SPD's sails and prevent them claiming that
Chancellor Kohl is planning a new 'tax-lie' - trying to deny this side
of the election that VAT is to be raised, when in fact a rise is
planned for after the elections. For the SPD, Ingrid Matthaeus-Maier,
the deputy leader of the SPD Bundestag parliamentary party, said that
"our candidate for Chancellor has just given our position on this in
the budget debate - he put forward our suggestions and stated
unambiguously that, for the SPD, a rise in VAT is out of the
question." She added that this would also hold true for any possible
EU-wide process of tax-harmonisation.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-2>
<H1>
Youth group leader arrested
</H1>
A warrant was issued yesterday for the arrest of the leader of a youth
group from Eschwege; he was accused of having sexually abused dozens
of children who were in his care, and has since admitted the offences.
According to the accusations, the man abused around 60 young boys at
his own home and also during excursions and hiking trips. The man
recorded the abuse several times photographically and the resulting
pictures reportedly sickened the officers of the criminal police who
found them. It seems that the accused was never violent towards the
boys he abused, and since his arrest he has fully co-operated with the
police and admitted everything. There is currently no evidence that
the man passed the photographs of the abuse on to others. The police
have released no information as to how the man approached those who he
abused, but it is known that groups of between 10 and 12 boys were
entrusted to his care over several years. The police believe that they
have not yet identified all of the abused and it is expected that the
final number will be more than 60. A sentence of up to 15 years in
jail can be imposed for sexual abuse of children who were in the
abusers care, depending on the extent of the abuse. The police have
called on the public to help them in their enquiries; any
communication will be treated with the strictest confidentiality.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-3>
<H1>
Protestant church council leader criticises political parties
</H1>
The president of the German protestant church council, Manfred Kock,
has publicly criticised the political parties' policies towards
foreign nationals in Germany. He said that the parties have refined
their policies on deterring foreigners from entering Germany and not
made any effort to help integration. He accused politicians of playing
on people's fears and thus turning people against refugees and asylum
seekers, this has led to an atmosphere towards foreigners in Germany
which is characterised by distrust and rejection.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-4>
<H1>
Exports at ten year high
</H1>
The encouraging trend in foreign trade figures in Germany is
continuing. The Federal Department of Statistics has announced that,
since July, the balance of trade surplus has been at its highest for
ten years. The German Central Bank has said that the rates of export
are not increasing as quickly as before, but, nonetheless, exports are
still a powerful motor for growth.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-5>
<H1>
Schengen countries agree stronger controls at EU borders
</H1>
The countries of the European Union which have signed up to the
Schengen agreement to remove internal border controls have met at
Petersberg in Bonn and agreed an action plan against illegal
immigrants. The plan envisages a more consistent deportation policy,
closer co-operation with the authorities in refugees' countries of
origin, and stricter checks at the external borders of the EU,
particularly for ferries and at ports. All illegal entrants are to be
have their fingerprints taken, and any company which brings immigrants
without the necessary documents into one of the Schengen countries
will face legal action. Manfred Kanther, the Federal Minister of the
Interior, said that the nine full member countries of the Schengen
agreement wanted to pass on these responsibilities to the EU: "This
is, of course, a highly important step for the European Union - in
future, internal security will be an important part of its
responsibilities. A precondition for the realisation of the European
ideal internally and for the widening of the EU is that there can be
no loss of security."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-6>
<H1>
Bavarian district council election results
</H1>
The CSU has suffered losses (sometimes quite substantial ones) in
Sunday's district council elections. Their worst results came in Lower
Bavaria where, according to the latest figures, the party's result is
5.6% less than at the last elections. Despite the comparatively poor
showing, the CSU still has an absolute majority on all seven district
councils. The Freie Waehlergemeinschaft  [="Independent Voters'
Party"] have most reason to be pleased with their results, as they are
now represented on council in all districts. The Greens also suffered
losses and lost all their council seats in Lower Bavaria and
Oberpfalz.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-7>
<H1>
German Post Office loses European court case
</H1>
The European Court has quashed a European Commission decision on the
issue of 'remailing' at the first instance. The Commission had
forbidden remailing, which is the term used to describe the German
practice of sending mail via Holland (or other countries with lower
postage rates than Germany) to save money, but this decision has now
been declared void. The German Post Office says that it stands to lose
hundreds of billions or Marks due to the practice. The Commission
decided that remailing involved a deliberate attempt to bypass the
German postal monopoly and allowed the German Post Office to refuse to
deliver remailed post. Although its decision has been quashed, the
Commission can now choose to reaffirm it before the court if it can
come up with better justification.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-16-8>
<H1>
Big rise in car production
</H1>
According to a report produced by the Automobile Manufacturers
Association, several car manufacturers shortened their traditional
works holiday in August and many companies have introduced extra
shifts due to a sustained increase in demand. Compared with August
1997, production has increased by 37%; 328,000 (or 40%) more passenger
cars were produced.

