<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-1>
<H1>
German-Turkish relations further damaged
</H1>
The accusations of the Turkish government in the wake of the arson attack in
Krefeld, which caused the death of three people, has led to new tensions in
German-Turkish relations. There has still been no official reaction from Ankara
to the most recent investigation results, according to which the recently
arrested father is said to have set the fire. Only the Turkish daily papers reported today, in a somewhat conciliatory tone.
<P>
The paper "Huerryet" reported the new developments in Krefeld on page 11. The
headline proclaimed "The father is now suspected to have been the arsonist".
A related editorial with a pronounced conciliatory undertone said that the
Germans cannot be accused when it came to arson. The liberal paper "Yum
Hurryet" devoted page 3 to the Krefeld theme. According to the headline, the
PKK had  disturbed the pyre for the victims. Immediately after it came the
notice on the father's arrest. The largest religiously oriented paper reported
on Krefeld with a small article on the front page. Neither the Turkish Prime
Minister Erbakan nor the Foreign Minister Ciller have reacted to the new
development in Krefeld.
On the official side there was merely a position taken by the former Turkish
ambassador in Bonn and the present state secretary in the Foreign Ministry.
In his opinion, even if it the arson was not the work of Neonazis, attacks by
them on Turks could certainly recur. It is much like a sort of chronic illness,
according to the ambassador.
<P>
Foreign Minister Kinkel has again explicitly asked the Turkish politicians who
made the anti-German comments to retract them. He told the paper "Welt am Sonntag" that reflexive accusations should be repressed. Megaphone diplomacy would
draw people offsides, and destroy ties long in development.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-2>
<H1>
EU Finance Ministers consult on the Euro
</H1>
The EU Finance Ministers met in the Dutch city Noordwijk to confer on the
currency union. The Finance Ministers and National bank chiefs conferred there
about the still-open points in the stability pact that is to secure the common
currency, the Euro. Further themes are the future mechanism of the exchange
rate and the selection process for the participants in the Euro.
<P>
The pressure has reduced. Compared to the last meeting of Finance Ministers,
the Noordwijk meeting is taking place under more positive circumstances. The
public discussion on the postponement of the start of the Euro has become significantly less strident, and that is also noticeable in the Dutch sea resort.
Directly before the beginning of the talks many of the Ministers and Commisars
addressed Chancellor Helmut Kohl's desire to run once more for Chancellor. His
name is inseperably tied to the unified currency, at least from the point of
view of many Europeans. The Danish Finance Minister Jelvet said that if anyone
still doubted that the currency union would begin on time, they would in any
case not be able to give evidence for that belief. In any case it is very
doubtful whether her country will participate -- for political reasons. Because
of record levels of unemployment and many other bad data, many consider it unlikely that Germany will be able to fulfill the reuqirements of the Maastricht
accord this year. 
<P>
The Finance Ministers are in the position to set exact standards for the decisions next spring at their meeting, and thereby give a sign
that everything will proceed as it has already been agreed. The leaders of
the states and the governments are to determine which states will be allowed
to introduce the Euro. Becouse no country will be able to incur more debts than
allowed once the currency union begins, the EU governments have agreed on the
stability package. The Finance Ministers discussed the legality of the agreement at this meeting. There appears to be no major opposition to be overcome.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-3>
<H1>
SPD: Debate on the nomination of the Chancellor candidate
</H1>
A debate over the impending nomination of a candidate for Chancellor has broken
out in the SPD. The speaker of the Seeheim region and member of the Bundestag,
Andres, said in an interview that the SPD would not delay discussion on their
candidiate for another year. The party must name its opponent to Chancellor
Kohl no later than at the party convention in December. In the opinion of the
chair of the Working Circle of Social Democratic women, Junker, there should
be discussions as soon as the next leadership meeting. Several SPD state politicians as well as the leaders of IG Chemie and IG Bau, Schmoldt and Wiesehuegel, and the DAG chief Issen are calling on the SPD to make a quick decision. According to the existing plans the candidate would be named next April.
Lower Saxony's Prime Minister Schroeder wants to keep to this time table, which
would favor SPD leader LaFontaine, the Prime Minister of Hesse Eichel and Hamburg's Mayor Voscherau.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-4>
<H1>
5 year anniversary of the children's rights convention at the UN
</H1>
The children's rights convention of the UN turns five years old today. The program provided motivation for many organizations to weed out lapses in child
protection. "ProAsyl" for example demanded changes in the proceedures used to
expel immigrants back to Yugoslavia. The German Organization for Children's Aid
demanded better living conditions for children from the German Government.
Children belong in the center of society, not on its edges. This was the call
of Federal Family Minister Nolte at today's celebration of the UN Children's
Rights Convention. In order to address the inequality in handling children
born in and out of wedlock he demanded quick reform of Child law in this session of the legislature. The Children's Commission of the Bundestag denied that
the basic article of the children's rights convention was applicable to the 16
million children and youth in Germany. The Children's Commission still sees
considerable deficits in child protection. Among these come the law for protection of non-smokers, better coordination rights for children and the legal
assurance of an abuse-free childhood. The immigrants' aid society ProAsyl
demanded protection of child refugees. Underage immigrants must not be treated
like adults. Young asylum seekers must not be covered by the Third State's Rule
and the Airport regulation in asylum law. According to the Third State's Rule,
all immigrants who arrived by land must be sent to the nation of transit. The
Airport regulation declares that asylum seekers from a safe nation of origin
must go through a shortened asylum process.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-5>
<H1>
Recipients of public aid will have to take even poorly paid work
</H1>
Work Minister Bluem and President of the Bundestag Suessmuth are both in favor
of legally requiring recipients of public aid to accept work that pays less
than public aid. In this matter there can be no difference to the unemployed,
Bluem declared in the "Saarlaendischer Rundfunk". Suessmuth, in the "Koelner
Sonntagsexpress", said that recipients of public aid could no longer reject
available work, because it did not make sense from an earnings point of view.
The CDU politician Suessmuth however criticized the discussions about reduction
in public aid. It must be clear that the point was not to make savings at the
expense of the truly needy like the handicapped and the sick.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-05-6>
<H1>
Louven: Buy out the employers' portion of health insurance
</H1>
The CDU member of the Bundestag Louven has suggested that the employers'
portion of health insurance be paid to the employees, who would then be legally
required to use these funds for basic medical care. It would not be possible
to reduce the total social insurance load under 40 percent without savings,
Louven advised in an interview with the Cologne paper "Express". Anyone who
wants luxury care would have to pay for it themselves.

