<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-1>
<H1>
Trial against arsonist of Luebeck starts
</H1>
The trial against the Lebanese Safwan Eid began under heavy security
at the Regional Court today. He is accused of having set fire to a hostel for
refugees last January. Ten people were killed and 38 injured. The defendant and
his family will be heard during the first two days of the trial. Since it is
uncertain whether Safwan Eid was born on November 10, 1972 or on November
1,1975, he is standing trial at the juvenile criminal court. No confession or
witnesses exist, and there are also questions about a conclusive motive. The
main witness for the prosecution is a paramedic who claims to have heard Safwan
Eid say the words "We did it." The defendant claims that he was misunderstood.
According to the DA, conversations tapped while the defendant was in pretrial
detention nurse the suspicion. Nevertheless, the Lebanese citizen had to be
released before the start of the trial because the juvenile court did not see
an imminent suspicion. Experts argue over the question where the fire started.
The prosecution assumes that it started on the second floor, whereas the
defense considers the first floor the scene of the crime, thus supporting its
theory of an assault from the outside. Several initiatives support this thesis.
60 witnesses will be heard during the first ten days of the trial.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-2>
<H1>
Police shoots killer of plainclothes officer
</H1>
The 28-year old man accused of killing a police officer has been
shot and killed during an attempted arrest. The police tracked him down eight
hours after the shots that killed a plainclothes officer who wanted to check
his papers.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-3>
<H1>
Communal elections in Lower Saxony
</H1>
The Greens were the only party able to gain votes in the communal
elections in Lower Saxony. They reached a total of 9 percent after a gain of
2.7 percent. The other parties suffered losses of up to 1.4 percent. Despite
the savings measures passed by the federal government, the CDU remained the
strongest party with 41.6 percent, according to the preliminary official
results. The SPD received 38.5 percent and the FDP 4.6 percent. The parties
deliberate today on the results of the election. Once again the FDP missed the
magical 5 percent hurdle. CDU secretary general Hintze said that his party was
clearly the winner. He rated the result as a confirmation of the CDU's set
course for economic growth and employment. SDP federal manager Muentefering
said that the Social Democrats would have to learn from this result. The
positions of the SPD had to be clear and unmistakable in order to mobilize as
many people as possible for the elections. The spokesperson for the
Alliance90/The Greens called the result a warning shot for the coalition in
Bonn. According to pollsters, the election was a protest vote against the
established parties, on which the Greens and communal electoral groups were
able to capitalize.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-4>
<H1>
Kohl visits Argentina
</H1>
Buenos Aires. Chancellor Kohl started his political discussions in Argentina
today. A tax agreement is supposed to be signed following the talks with
President Menem. One of the items on his agenda was the opening of a
manufacturing plant owned by Mercedes Benz AG. The car manufacturer from
Stuttgart intends to built a Minivan for the Argentinean market.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-5>
<H1>
Trial against film forger Born starts
</H1>
The trial against 37-year old filmmaker Michael Born started today at
the Regional Court. He is accused of forging TV reports, making up interviews
and setting up ficticious scenes. TV stations in Germany and Switzerland paid
him DM 350,000 between 1990 and 1995. Born confessed during the trial that he
committed the forgery, saying that one of the films he made up was about
looting in eastern Germany. He decided to have the events acted out because the
looters refused to be filmed. "On Organized Gangs of Thieves" was sold to Stern
magazine's TV news show Stern TV in 1991. The prosecution accuses Born of 32
counts of attempted and completed fraud as well as illegal possession of
firearms.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-6>
<H1>
UNICEF criticizes German government
</H1>
More than 100 million children have to work in inhuman conditions
worldwide. This number was published by UNICEF on the occasion of the Day of
the Children of the World on September 20, 1996. In Bonn, UNICEF pointed out
child labor is harmful to children's health and keeps them from attending
school. Most of the children who do not receive an education remain poor as
adults. According to the orgamization, about 2 million children worldwide are
forced into prostitution. UNICEF criticized Germany for approving the UN's
children convention only with reservations and for limiting children's rights
within the asylum and resident alien laws.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-7>
<H1>
Committee is supposed to bring relief for Federal Constitutional Court
</H1>
The so-called committee for the relief of the Federal Constitutional
Court started its work. The independent committee is lead by the former
president of the highest German court, Benda. The committee is supposed to
present suggestions by Fall of 1997 on how the Federal Constitutional Court can
be relieved. In 1995, the Court's sixteen judges had to work on almost 6000 new
cases, according to the federal ministry of justice. This would mean, by way of
calculation, that every judge had to work on about 50 cases every day.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-16-8>
<H1>
Switzerland lifts banker's discretion for Nazi gold
</H1>
Switzerland will lift the banker's discretion for the search of the socalled Nazi-gold. Following a decision of the Swiss government, all financial
transactions between Nazi Germany and Swiss banks will be investigated by a
group of experts. Switzerland is reacting to increasing international pressure.
The country is accused of having served as a channel for the gold that mainly
belonged to German Jews. It is also suspected that some Swiss bank accounts
still hold money belonging to Holocaust victims.

