<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-1>
<H1>
Rail blackmailer gives partial confession; more bomb threads
</H1>
According to the Federal Criminal Police Office, a
warrant has been issued for the arrest of one of the alleged rail
blackmailesr. The 46-year old was arrested in Bavaria. He confessed to
having loosened screws on railtracks and to having lifted the tracks.
Furthermore, he confessed that he, under the name "Friends of the Railway",
demanded DM 10 millions. The second arrested person was released because of
lack of evidence. Last night, several bomb threads were made in Stuttgart
and Bonn and also against an ICE-railtrack in Lower Saxony. However, the
threads, which were attributed to "free-riders", turned out to be false
alarms. German Rail declared that they will keep controlling security on
all lines. A spokesperson said that railways will be continued to be
surveyed from the air, and that locomotives will be test-driven prior to
their use. Christmas traffic has been without disturbance.
Last night, German Rail chairman Ludewig repeatedly defended German Rail's
policy on release of information.  He said it would have been a dilemma.
Ludewig said that they had to go to the media in order to get in contact
with the blackmailers. At the same time they were forced to withhold
information, so that they would neither irritate the blackmailers, nor
encourage "free-riders".

<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-2>
<H1>
Christmas speech of the President
</H1>
In his Christmas speech, Federal President Roman Herzog has
appealed to entrepreneurs to create more jobs. Strong efforts had, again,
made the German economy one of the most modern and competitive ones in the
world. Herzog said that now it is time to keep the promise of market
economy, and to think of those who are in need of a job. Also, more
solidarity with the socially weak would be necessary. According to Herzog,
the relationship between young and old is a sign of the risk of a split
society; money should not be the sole topic in generations contract.
Instead, a promise for attention and care should be the prime concern. The
President also called upon better dialogues between East and West Germans
and between Germans and foreigners. His Christmas greetings from Schloss
Bellevue in Berlin were directed especially towards those who have sought
home, hospitality and refuge in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-3>
<H1>
Christmas sermons urge social responsibility
</H1>
In their Christmas sermons, German Bishops called
upon social responsibilities. Bishop Lehmann from Mainz said that a world
without compassion should not exist. Each person seeking help should be
given help. Bishop Spittal from Trier said that man must not live on the
surface only any longer. If life has nothing else to give than
ordinariness, it would just be a slog. Bishop Jespen from Hamburg demanded
market economy to become social again;  if poverty then it should at least
be bearable.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-4>
<H1>
Scharping finishes Christmas visit in Bosnia
</H1>
Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping finished his Christmas visit
with German soldiers stationed in Bosnia. During the two days, Scharping
collected information on work in the German camp Rajlovac (sp?) in
Sarajevo. The contingent of German SFOR-troup in Bosnia includes around
2.800 soldiers. Scharping said that NATO-peace-troups had to remain at
least three more years in Bosnia. Besides other tasks, their major role
would be reconstruction of the infrastructure and the health system.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-5>
<H1>
Talks between Schroeder and Trittin on nuclear politics
</H1>
After the red-green arguments over nuclear politics, Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder and Environmental Minister Juergen Trittin have talked
things out. They told several newspapers that there would be more smoke
than fire. Nuclear energy would not be the given break of the coalition.
The cessation of nuclear energy would have to be irreversible. However,
Schroeder warned Trittin of solo efforts. The environmental minister
dissolved the Commission for Radiation Protection and Reactor Security
without consulting the Chancellor.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-24-6>
<H1>
German carbondioxide production increases
</H1>
According to a report from the weekly newsmagazine "Der Spiegel",
German industries released more of the greenhouse gas carbondioxide during
1998 than they did during 1997. Carbondioxide production increased by 1.5 %
to 123 million tons. The German Institute for Economic Research, hence,
demands introduction of an ecology tax. The self-obligation declarations of
the industries had led to no results. Two years ago, industry had promised
to reduce carbondioxide production by 20 % between 1990 t0 2005.

