<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-1>
<H1>
Bundestag: Opposition takes Government generally to account
</H1>
The budget debate in the Bundestag today turned into a traditional
wide-open verbal sparring match between the government and the opposition.
The federal government insisted on putting through its ideas for reforming
the German "social state". It defended itself against heavy attacks from
the opposition. Each side said the other was incapable of doing any kind
of a good job of shaping Germany's future.
At the beginning of the session, the leader of the SPD's forces in the
Bundestag, Scharping, attacked the Chancellor, saying that Kohl was
responsible for Germany's present situation, with high unemployment and
tax increases. Scharping accused Kohl of looking for a scapegoat for his
failed economic policies and, in his desperation, blaming the country's
employers. He continued that Kohl was trying to sneak out of his
responsibility for jobs and social justice. Scharping also called for the
government to work with his party in lowering secondary wage costs, and to
turn away from social confrontation: "The person who responds to global
competition with confrontation has not understood the principles upon
which Germany's economic strength is based".
The leader of the CDU/CSU group in the Bundestag, Schauble, rejected
Scharping's criticisms, saying that the situation in the federal states
with SPD governments showed that the Social Democrats themselves had no
ideas for solving the present problems. He suggested that it was the wrong
approach to today's problems to start a new debate on the distribution of
wealth. He said the SPD was still just calling for more government and
more bureaucracy, and could not offer even a single savings measure of its
own. Schauble also said that in the Bundesrat the SPD was blockading the
government's planned cuts to subsidies. The government member did admit,
however, that secondary wage costs were too high and had to be lowered.
Chancellor Kohl called on the SPD to work with the coalition to find
solutions. At the same time, he reiterated criticism of the SPD's
"blockade policy" in the Bundesrat. Kohl said that, as an example,
reforming the pension system would require cooperation between the
parties; partisan politics would have to take a back seat to the problems
facing the country. He said that the fight against unemployment would
continue to be a priority, and the government would stick to its goal of
halving the number of unemployed (presently approximately 4 million) by
the year 2000.
The leader of the SPD party, Lafontaine, affirmed that the SPD was willing
to cooperate in order to fight unemployment, for example, but said that
the government's economic policies were wrong from the ground up, as they
diminished people's purchasing power. Lafontaine repeated the Social
Democrats' demands for changes to the tax system to make it more just. He
accused the coalition of throwing money at the well-off by eliminating the
wealth tax.
Kerstin Muller, the leader of the parliamentary forces of the Green Party,
accused the government of no longer having a social conscience. She said
her party would continue to be committed to preventing the worst social
injustices.
Following the discussions, the governmental majority in the Bundestag
approved the chancellor's budget, as well as the budgets of the ministries
of foreign affairs and defence.
Traditionally, the opposition uses the occasion of the chancellor's budget
to call the government to general account.
In opening the session, Bundestag President Sussmuth remembered the late
vice-president of the Bundestag, Hans Klein, who died yesterday. Sussmuth
praised especially Klein's readiness to stand up in defence of democracy.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-2>
<H1>
The Lopez affair: American court will hear GM's case against VW
</H1>
Opel's parent company, General Motors (GM), has had its
first victory in a dispute with Volkswagen (VW). An American court has
agreed to hear GM's industrial spying case against Volkswagen. If found
guilty, Volkswagen would automatically have to pay damages of three times
the losses claimed by GM - up to 4 billion marks, according to the
American magazine "Business Week".
The court will see if a settlement between General Motors and Volkswagen
can be reached. The judge in charge of the case has set up a meeting
between the two sides for the coming week.
GM accuses former Opel manager, now Volkwagen's purchasing executive,
Lopez, of taking confidential documents with him when he moved to VW, and
so causing GM losses in the billions of marks. Opel is presently rejecting
any out-of-court settlement.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-3>
<H1>
CDU members agree on foundations of education reform
</H1>
Representatives of the CDU/CSU responsible for education have agreed
on the basic points of a reform of post-secondary education. Among other
things, post-secondary institutions are to have the right to place
particular emphasis on abitur (major exams at the end of high school)
results in selecting students. Overall, the CDU/CSU would like to make
higher education more stream-lined.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-4>
<H1>
IG Metall union: no chance of a compromise
</H1>
Frankfurt (Main). After the failure of preliminary negotiations in the
metals industry in North Rhine-Westphalia, IG Metall union leader Zwickel
sees no chance of a compromise with the employers' association,
Gesamtmetall. Zwickel said that the employers had, in three round of
negotiations, shown themselves to be incapable of coming to an agreement
within the legal limits of time and negotiating tactics. Zwickel said
"Obviously, we will have to strike some sense into Gesamtmetall". His
vice-chairman Riester emphasized that if no settlement had been reached by
the end of February (when the legal moratorium on industrial action during
contract negotiations runs out) then the first vote on the possibility of
a strike would most likely be held in Bavaria.
Meanwhile, the chairman of the employers' association, Stumpfe, is still
hoping for a peaceable solution. Referring to the upcoming negotiations in
individual regions, Stumpfe said that employers everywhere were ready to
resolve the issue of sick pay. He added that the coming weeks would
present numerous opportunities for regional negotiations to result in an
agreement which might be acceptable throughout the country. In return,
Stumpfe said, employers demanded alternatives in lowering wage costs. He
added that if the union wanted to carry on down the path of conflict, and
seek a solution in industrial action, then it alone would bear the
responsibility for stalling the economic upswing again.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-5>
<H1>
Potash and rock salt: full pay for sick workers assured
</H1>
Workers in the potash and rock salt industry in Germany will
continue to receive full pay while on sick leave. Union and management
came to this agreement in Hanover. As the union for mining and energy
explained, overtime and danger pay for a shift will not be added on to the
pay of a worker who is off sick. The negotiator for the union spoke of the
agreement as a "complete success".

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-6>
<H1>
Constitutional Court rejects children's case against Summer Smog Law
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court has again rejected a case
brought forward on behalf of children against the Summer Smog Law. 126
complainants were fighting the 1995 law because they thought it allowed
ozone levels that were too high. They argued that the basic right of
children to be protected from health risks was thus not being respected.
As it did last year, too, the Constitutional Court ruled that the measures
provided for by law, such as the introduction of the catalytic converter
or temporary traffic bans, were sufficient and hence not subject to
constitutional challenge.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-7>
<H1>
Imprisonment for child pornography and child abuse
</H1>
In the first German trial dealing with the production of
pornographic films using children in Thailand, the two accused were given
prison sentences of several years each. The regional court in Berlin found
a 33 year-old computer expert and a 43 year-old office worker guilty of
sexual abuse and of distributing pornography. The 33 year-old was
sentenced to 4 years imprisonment, the 43 year-old to 4 years and 10
months. Both men had been accused of producing pornographic films and
photos in Thailand and selling them in Germany since 1994.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-27-8>
<H1>
Five years imprisonment for vandalizing railway
</H1>
A debt-ridden businessman has been sentenced to 5 years and 3
months imprisonment for 7 counts of sabotage on railway lines and trains.
The regional court in Erfurt thus came close to meeting the public
prosecutor's request of 6 years. The entrepreneur from Mainz, in financial
straits after speculating in properties, had tried using sabotage to
blackmail the German railway for 6.5 million marks

