<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-1>
<H1>
Attacks against SPD during CDU party conference
</H1>
During the CDU party conference in Bremen, Chancellor Kohl gave Christian
Democrats a taste of the Bundestag election campaign by strongly attacking
the SPD. After Kohl's keynote speech, the delegates, numbering approx. 1000,
stood demonstratively behind their chairman and candidate for chancellor
with triumphant cheering. Kohl denied the SPD competency for forming a
government. The chancellor stated that a win by the Red and Green (SPD) in
September would mean uncertainty and instability. With reference to the socalled Mageburg model he stressed that while the SPD may be talking about
the new middle, it has placed itself on the side of communists. Kohl gave
absolute priority to the rebuilding of the East. The State Premier of
Saxony, Biedenkopf, citicized the PDS for talking too much about the
success stories of rebuilding the East.
CDU secretary-general, Hintze, reemphasized that the new Bundestag election
would be a clear decision on the direction to take.
SPD federal secretary-general, Muentefering, said in Bonn that his
party  would not be afraid of a camp-style election campaign. The executive
board of the SPD, however, also agreed that the PDS should not receive too
much attention during the election campaign. Roestel and Trittin, the chairs
of Buendnis 90/Die Gruenen, declared that Kohl is not capable of continuing
to lead Germany. The PDS leadership rejected Kohl's speech as an insolence.
The head of the FDP, Gerhardt, on the other hand rated the appearance of the
chancellor as a signal that the CDU had once again fallen into step.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-2>
<H1>
Herzog warns against rejection of democratic system in Paulskirche
</H1>
German President Herzog warned citizens against turning to radical parties
because of political dissatisfaction. Herzog spoke at a ceremony commemorating the opening session of the first freely elected German parliament 150
years ago in the Paulskirche in Frankfurt. "Flirting with the opponents of
democracy is like playing with fire. It is frightening to realize that many
people had lost confidence in the state's competency to solve problems. This
discomfort/uneasiness in politics threatens to turn into a rejection of the
democratic system." Herzog demanded that citizens be given the feeling again
of being able to participate in the decision process. "The desire for sharing
in the decision-making is at the heart of democracy."
The president of the Bundestag, Suessmuth, also honored the Parliament
of the Paulskirche. The ideas of 1848 remain alive in the minds of the
people despite apathy, political distance, and stronger growing
extremism.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-3>
<H1>
HIP-participating doctors demand higher contributions from patients
</H1>
The national confederation of health-insurance providers spoke in favor of
a higher participation from patients for doctor expenses. The demand by the
110,000 doctors participating in German health-insurance plans directed at
future health politics asked for an increased orientation of the plans'
services to the limited finances, and that unnecessary services must be cut
from catalog of services. Based on the demand, people with high incomes
should increasingly balance their accounts directly with the doctors.
According to the doctors participating in health-insurance plans, patients
should be allowed only one visit to a family doctor or a specialist each
quarter and be required to obtain a referral for each additonal visit.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-4>
<H1>
Wage negotiations in retail trade in Baden-Wuerttemberg postponed
</H1>
A spokesperson for the union for trade, bank, and insurance employees this
evening announced that the wage negotiations for approximately 260,000
employees of Baden-Wuertemberg's retail trade were postponed to June 2nd
after reaching no decision. The two sides could not come to terms on their
point of views. The unions demand an incraese of 4.5% and 4.8% in wages and
salaries as well as job-securing measures.
So far, the employers offered only an increase of 1.2%.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-5>
<H1>
International aerospace and aeronautics fair opened
</H1>
The German aerospace and aeronautics industry sees itself in a continuing
upswing. After the strong growth in 1997, the industry's turnover should
increase by an additional 20% in the next two years, said association
president Bischof at the opening of ILA '98 at the airport in Berlin-
Schoenefeld.
Earlier at the international aerospace and aeronautics fair, German
president Herzog recollected the well-deserved chances in international
competition.
825 exhibitors from 32 countries will be showing their products at the
ILA, including approximately 270 airplanes.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-18-6>
<H1>
Murder of 11-year-old Christina may be solved
</H1>
The murder of 11-year-old Christina from Dobersdau in Saxony may be
solved. The senior public prosecutor in Leipzig announced that the police
arrested a 16-year-old boy living in the neighborhood of the girl under
strong suspicions. The boy admitted to sexually abusing and strangling
Christina. A warrant for his arrest had been issued. Since the beginning
of this year, 4 girls have fallen victims to sex murders in Germany.
Federal Minister of Justice Schmidt-Jortzig spoke out against harder
sentences for sex offenders. The FDP politician said that one should not
believe that this measure would reduce the number of offenses.

