<DOC de-news-1998-09-02-1>
<H1>
Election themes flavor debate in the Bundestag
</H1>
The budget debate began today in the German Bundestag. The debate was
over a budget that will no longer be decided on during this
legislative session, because in just over three weeks a new Bundestag
will be elected.  For the members of parliament it was one more
opportunity to touch on election themes.  Tomorrow the candidates for
Federal Chancellor will go head to head, but today the financial
experts climbed into the ring: Oskar Lafontaine for the SPD, Minister
of Finance Waigel for the government. The Opposition complains the
government has ruined things by mismanagement, and they need to take
their leave. For the other side, the CDU/CSU and FDP promise to hold
the course and continue on, and Minister of Finance Waigel explained
why: "The numbers speak for themselves.  Germany is in the middle of a
recovery.  The trends in the job market have changed."  In addition,
economic growth is good, interest rates are low, and prices are
stable.  Minister of Economics Rexrodt (FDP) seconded this, saying
"The politics of reform are what have accelerated the recovery, not
the anti-reform politics of the SPD." For SPD chief Oskar Lafontaine
in contrast, it is a certainty that the government coalition has
failed to keep its election promises, and is now trying to cover this
up.  "The national debt is higher than ever. The tax burden is also
higher than ever -- not for all, but for the working man and woman.
And unemployment, at 4.3 million, is the highest since World War II.
All this can't just be ignored."  After the election, the SDP would
takes steps to ensure social justice.  "Us too," said Theo Waigel, and
promised for 1999 a first stage of tax reform, that will go beyond
previous coalition plans.  "It would provide a genuine net reduction
of 10 billion DM which would benefit all taxpayers, both business and
personal." This left Oskar Lafontaine somewhat baffled because
Waigel's newest tax change proposition so nearly coincides with that
of the SPD.  "Ladies and Gentlemen," he said, "this is exactly what
the SPD has been offering you for years.  Why have you come so
suddenly just before the election to our way of thinking -- at least
as far as taxes are concerned?" Metzger, budget expert for the Greens,
didn't think much of such announcements.  "The people are too smart
not to notice that some of the promises that we are making here are
just not going to be kept."

<DOC de-news-1998-09-02-2>
<H1>
Alleged Serbian war criminal arrested in Munich
</H1>
The Bavarian state police agency has arrested a Bosnian citizen in
Munich.  The 43 year old Serb has been in custody since yesterday
according to the Federal Prosecutor's Office in Karlsruhe.  He is
accused of having committed several major atrocities during the
Bosnian conflict.  The Bosnian Serb maintained a residence in the
vicinity of Munich.  He was taken from there to Karlsruhe immediately
after the arrest, and brought before judge of the Federal Court for
preliminary proceedings.  Since the accusations against the 43 year
old man deal with genocide, the Federal Prosecutor is responsible for
the prosecution.  During the summer of 1992 the defendant, who was a
Commander of Police, is alleged to have been responsible for several
mass executions of Bosnian Muslims.  According to the Federal
Prosecutor's Office, he is alleged to have killed at least 16 men
himself, and deported the wives and children of the murdered men to
concentration camps.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-02-3>
<H1>
Germany beats Malta
</H1>
In its first test following the World Cup, the German national soccer
team came within a hair's breadth of embarrassing itself, turning in a
meager 2:1 victory over Malta.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-02-4>
<H1>
Steffi Graf in the 3rd round of the US Open
</H1>
Steffi Graf is now in the third round of the US Open.  The girl from
Bruehl came out ahead in her German vs. German duel with Marlene
Weingaertner.  Also advancing a round are Nicola Kiefer and Bernd
Karbacher, who defeated the number four ranked Petr Korda.

