<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-1>
<H1>
Kohl has arrived in Mexico
</H1>
Mexico City.  Concluding his trip to Latin America, Chancellor Kohl has
arrived in Mexico.  Previously, he had visited Argentina and Brazil.  Talks
with the Mexican President and representatives of industry were planned for
today.

<P>
A commercial aircraft of Lufthansa returned to the Mexican capital shortly
after take-off, because of a bomb threat, a spokesman of the airport at
Mexico City informed.  Almost simultaneously, Chancellor Kohl landed at the
airport, in a closed-off area.  Thus far, it is unknown whether there is a
connection between the bomb threat and the visit of Chancellor Kohl.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-2>
<H1>
HBV remains critical of extended store hours
</H1>
Wiedholt, board member of HBV [union for trade, banking and insurance]
told Deutschlandradio Berlin this morning that in times of declining buying
power, the extended store hours are poison for retailers, since they cost
actual money and do not increase proceeds.  Ms. Wiedholt emphasizes that
retailers do not expect economic advantages from the new law any more.  She
said that merciless competition would become even stiffer, leaving many
retailers on the way.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-3>
<H1>
Interior Ministers make decision on repatriation of Bosnian refugees
</H1>
About 320,000 people from Bosnia fled to Germany during the war in their
country.  Roughly ten months after the cease-fire, they are to be sent back
to their home soil.  Federal Minister Kanther of the Interior has scheduled
the start of the repatriation for October 1.  The UN refugee commission,
however, criticized this date as much too early, and in the SPD opposition
mounted as well, though remaining without effect, as became clear right at
the beginning of the Ministers' conference in Bonn.  The Bavarian Interior
Minister Beckstein said that this date is reasonable on legal and
humanitarian grounds.  "There can be no doubt that the civil war is over and
that the country has to be rebuilt, and that this reconstruction cannot be
done by the Europeans, the European Union, Germany or the World Bank, but by
the people living in the region, although it is naturally difficult, but the
process has to start."  According to Beckstein, it is possible to weatherize
hundreds of thousands of houses in Bosnia for relatively little money.  The
Bavarian Interior Minister did not want to comment on the question which
refugees should leave first.  He said this was a point of discussion.
According to the current schedule, singles and couples without children must
return to Bosnia first, followed by families with children next spring.  It
is conceivable that other criteria, such as location of home town and
profession, will also be considered, in order to have skilled workers
available for the reconstruction process.  Another subject at the conference
are cuts in welfare assistance to refugees of war, starting October.  The
amounts paid so far follow the welfare plan, in the future it will be
according to the rate for asylum seekers, about 20% less.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-4>
<H1>
Scharping anticipates social conflicts in fall
</H1>
The chairman of the SPD parliamentary group, Mr. Scharping, anticipates
social conflicts in fall, due to cuts of sick pay.  Scharping said at a
convention with party representatives from the states, held in Bremen, that
the government's resolutions have triggered an avalanche whose consequences
are unpredictable.  The SPD is committed to support any effort by the unions
to ensure continued sick pay during the upcoming collective bargaining
rounds.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-5>
<H1>
SPD in favor of continued German military presence in Bosnia
</H1>
According to their spokesman for foreign policy, Mr. Vogt, a majority of the
SPD parliamentary group in principle endorses a continued presence of German
troops at the peace mission in former Yugoslavia.  How the parliamentary
group will vote on this question, ultimately depends on the UN mandate, Vogt
said on Deutschlandfunk radio this morning.  Since it would be irresponsible
to recommend withdrawal to all countries contributing troops to the peace
force, there is no reason why Germany should not participate.  This is even
more true considering that German soldiers are welcome on location and have
been better received than their counterparts from certain other countries.
Vogt said an essential prerequisite for an effective peace-restoring mission
is modern equipment which also encompasses armored vehicles.  Good gear is
crucial to avoid hostilities before they arise.  The leading SPD politician
added that the ongoing discussion in Germany about the term "fighting force"
does not relate to reality.  If Germany were to back away from its
responsibility, this would not be viewed from abroad as a sign of German
pacifism, but as indication for a certain egoism.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-6>
<H1>
Government against apprentice penalty
</H1>
In the controversy about missing apprentice positions, the government opposes
any form of penalty for companies not providing such positions.  Education
Minister Ruettgers said in Bonn today that this would not create new
apprenticeships.  The Minister commented on corresponding proposals by the
SPD that such penalties would be harmful for employers since they would not
allow for individual companies' special circumstances.  SPD Secretary
General Muentefering renewed his appeal to all concerned parties to make a
sufficient number of apprentice positions available.  He also reminded the
government of its special duty in this question.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-7>
<H1>
Coalition government agrees on spending measures for health care
</H1>
Patients will have to pay more out of their own pockets in the future.
Experts on health policy of CDU/CSU and FDP have agreed on new spending laws
for the health care system.  Details are scheduled for next week, however it
is already certain that deductibles for certain services will be increased
further.  At their two-day seclusion meeting, the health experts of the
governing parties have apparently accepted Federal Health Minister Horst
Seehofer's plans for the third stage of the health care reform.  After
Seehofer's first attempt had failed because of the SPD-dominated Bundesrat's
opposition, the main task for the representatives of CDU/CSU and FDP was now
to bypass the SPD by preparing legislation that does not require the approval
of the Bundesrat.  After the conference, it was only said that an agreement
had been found, but that details shall not be disclosed before the
Chancellor, returning from his visit to Latin America, and party commissions
have been briefed.  The principles of Seehofer's strategy, however, have long
been known.  In order to avoid premium hikes, public health insurers are
expected to compete for clients, the patients, on the other hand, will be
drawn upon to a much larger extent than heretofore to bear the cost of medial
services.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-8>
<H1>
Arafat visiting Germany
</H1>
The Palestinian President, Mr. Arafat, is visiting Germany.  He intends to
stay for two days.  His first stop in Germany was at Wiesbaden where he spoke
before the Hessian Parliament.  In his speech, he appealed to the Israeli
Government to give up their blocking policy and to restart the peace process.
In front of the Hessian State Parliament, as well as at the subsequent news
conference, the Palestinian President strongly criticized the behavior of the
Israeli Government.  He said the new Israeli Government had withdrawn form
the agreed upon exchange of land for peace and now demands security for
peace.  This would effectively cancel binding accords with the old Israeli
Government.  Therefore, the peace process in the Near East is at a crossroads.
Arafat called upon the world community to put Israel under pressure.  In
particular, the new settlement policy threatens the peace efforts.  If no
measures are taken, an erosion of the peace process is imminent, dragging the
region back to extremism and terrorism which mankind wouldn't want, Arafat
concluded.  The talks with Kinkel and Herzog this afternoon in Bonn, and with
the chairman of the Central Jewish Council of Germany on Friday will be about
the Palestinian-Israeli peace process as well.  Tomorrow afternoon, Arafat
will meet with representatives of Hessian industry whom he tries to win for
investments in the autonomous territories.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-9>
<H1>
BND rejects report by TV magazine "Monitor"
</H1>
The BND [Federal Intelligence Agency] has rejected a report by the TV
magazine "Monitor", according to which BND personnel were involved in illegal
arms transports into former Yugoslavia.  The BND stated that it is not
entangled in such deliveries and had not violated the UN arms embargo.  No
comment was given to indications that the head of the German group within the
EU observation commission is a member of the BND.  According to pre-released
information by "Monitor", the German EU observer was involved in arms
deliveries to the Muslim enclave of Tuzla.  The weaponry was hidden in aid
transports, it was said.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-10>
<H1>
Central Bank Council leaves key short-term interest rates unchanged
</H1>
In today's meeting of the Central Bank Council in Frankfurt/Main, the key
short-term interest rates were left unchanged.  Discount and Lombard rate
remain at 2.5 and 4.5 percent, respectively.  The repurchase rate stays at
3.0%.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-19-11>
<H1>
Weather
</H1>
Situation: While the North and the East of Germany are still under the
influence of high pressure, clouds of a low pressure area move from France
into the Southwest.  Forecast: At times fair, partly cloudy, some rain in the
South and Southwest.  Highest temperatures 12 to 19 degrees Celsius.  At
night partly cloudy and scattered showers, temperatures dropping to 10 to 2
degrees.  Moderate to breezy easterly wind, in coastal areas strong gusts.
Extended forecast through Saturday:  In the North and Northeast fair to
cloudy and dry.  In the remaining areas cloudy at times and rainy.  Day-time
temperatures 15 to 22 degrees.

