<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-1>
<H1>
Storm tide in Northern Germany
</H1>
A storm tide reached the German North Sea coastline early this
morning, leading to widespread flooding. Roads were closed in Husum
(Schleswig-Holstein) and Bremen. Strong gale-force winds of up to 88kph
or 55mph (9 on the Beaufort scale) caused property damage in some
regions.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-2>
<H1>
Special parliament session on state of federal budget
</H1>
In a debate marked by mutual accusations, the Bundestag lower
house today discussed the current state of the federal finances in a
special sitting moved for by the Social Democrats.
Finance Minister Waigel labelled the session "purely for effect" and
said the SPD's exercise was costing taxpayers a six-figure sum. He
accused the SPD of blocking necessary budget consolidation measures
despite voting in favour of the Maastricht treaty. The party was
responsible for the high budget deficits and the hostile climate
experienced by investors. Waigel said he was nevertheless confident that
the criteria for joining the European monetary union next year would be
met.
Opening the session, SPD parliamentary faction leader Scharping accused
the Federal Government of misleading the electorate with its finance
policy. He said it was high time for an aboutface in what was a
disastrous application of policies that burdened the citizens. He spoke
of "the greatest tax swindle in German history". SPD chairman Lafontaine
criticised the government's fiscal policy as unsound. He also blamed the
governing coalition for the steadily increasing unemployment rate in
Germany.
Speaking for the Alliance 90/Greens, faction spokesperson Fischer
emphasised that there was currently no leeway for tax cuts. Merely more
fairness in taxation was a possible option, but only if the interests of
small lobby groups were not more important as the country's interest, as
was the case with the FDP Liberal Democrats. Fischer accused Waigel of
"snapping at heels because of being non-plussed" and attacked the FDP
for being a party of "old turncoats".
FDP chairman Gerhardt called the opposition "defenders of old domains"
steadfastly opposed to any reform. He also spoke of the opposition's
populism directed against the government and defended the FDP against
the "turncoat" label. The party did have the ability to correct its
course if necessary, He said.
Speaking for the former communists PDS, faction leader Gysi called on
Chancellor Kohl, who is on an official state visit in the Philippines,
to ask for a no-confidence vote after his return in order to make
possible an early election.
Using the coalition parties' majority, parliament rejected a resolution
supplementary to the 1996 budget and moved for by the SPD, which was
designed to attest an unbalanced overall economic situation. The SPD
argued that by rejecting the proposal, the budget had become
unconstitutional, as new debt was higher than new investment by the
state. According to the Basic Law constitution, this was only possible
in cases where the overall economic balance was disturbed. Earlier,
Scharping had reiterated the accusation that the budget was
unconstitutional. He pointed out that the allowable limit of new debt
prescribed by the Basic Law had already been passed by five billion
deutschmarks in September. Waigel replied that fiscal experts agreed
that the limit of allowable new loans taken out referred to the planning
of the budget and not to its actual application.
Immediately preceding the debate, Waigel had been called on to resign by
SPD finance expert Matthaeus-Maier. A politician like Waigel, who didn't
do his homework and took part in unfunded promises such as the decrease
in the solidarity surcharge tax, was unfit to be Finance Minister, she
said.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-3>
<H1>
Pensions insurance to face billion-deutschmark deficit in 1997
</H1>
Calculations by the Association of German Pensions
Insurance Bodies VDR show that the federal pensions insurance scheme is
about to experience a budget gap of close to seven billion marks next
year. At the VDR's Annual General Meeting, President Husmann again
accused the Federal Government of undermining the pension insurance's
fiscal foundation by its planned contribution increase to just 19.9%,
which would lead to a budget shortfall of 6.8 billion marks by the end
of next year. The VDR is of the opinion that contributions have to be
raised from now 19.2% to 20.3%. The organisation also warned against
keeping contributions low artificially, for instance by scratching the
contributions of the pensions insurance to the care insurance, which the
VDR labels dubious. The reserve to make up for up to a month's
fluctuations, prescribed by law, was not met by a substantial amount at
the current time, the VDR said. Rectifying this deficit alone required a
contribution increase of .54%.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-4>
<H1>
Help offered to eastern German engineering company
</H1>
Saxony state and the Federal Office for Unification-related
Special Tasks have offered financial help to Chemintz engineering
company Heckert, which had filed for bankruptcy. Heckert had been drawn
into financial problems after its parent company Traub in
Baden-Wuerttemberg had gone into receivership, leading banks to deny
Heckert a 15-million-mark loan. A temporary company is to be founded,
which will continue production and come up with a viable subsidy
concept. The Chemnitz firm is currently still employing some 550
workers.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-5>
<H1>
Protests and talks on paid sick leave
</H1>
The "IG Metall" metal and engineering workers union has
announced more protests about cuts to paid sick leave for next week in
Bavaria. The focus for the industrial action, starting Monday, will be
Nuremberg and Ingolstadt. Strikes are also planned for Saxony,
Brandenburg and Berlin states. In Baden-Wuerttemberg however the "IG
Metall" cancelled the planned demonstrations. On Thursday next week,
talks with employers over a comprehensive package solution are scheduled
here, entailing paid sick leave, holiday and Christmas bonuses,
part-time work for elderly workers, and wage raises.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-6>
<H1>
VW loses civil suit against GM-Opel in Lopez affair
</H1>
Car manufacturer Volkswagen has lost a civil suit
brought against rival Opel (General Motors) over the affair surrounding
the transfer of chief executive Lopez. The Frankfurt Regional Court
threw out a complaint by VW and denied an injunction. VW had accused
Opel of unfair competition and defamation, suing for 10 million marks
compensation. VW had wanted to defend itself against the claim, raised
in the US, of having participated in criminal collusion. VW announced it
would appeal today's decision.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-7>
<H1>
Trade unions point to increasing concentration of capital
</H1>
Trade unions say more and more capital belongs to fewer
people in Germany. According to a statistic presented by the DGB
umbrella organisation of German trade unions, 90% of all privately held
capital is concentrated with just 30% of capital owners. The financial
burdens of society were carried increasingly by workers and the socially
disadvantaged. DGB Vice President Engelen-Kefer said the time had come
to make the existing capital work to create new jobs.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-8>
<H1>
Sentencing of Chinese dissident meets with criticism
</H1>
Federal Government and opposition parties have voiced
criticism of the sentencing of Chinese human rights activist Wang Dan. A
court in Beijing had found Wang guilty of conspiring to overthrow the
Chinese government, and had sentenced him to eleven years imprisonment.
A spokesperson of the German Foreign Ministry called the verdict harsh
and added that the government was going to continue to speak out in
favour of human rights. The SPD released a statement encouraging
critical voices in China not to be intimidated against speaking out by
Wang's sentencing. The executive board spokespersons of the Alliance
90/Greens demanded the immediate release of Wang.
The 27-year-old dissident had been one of the leaders of the
pro-democracy movement that had been smashed bloodily by the Chinese
government in 1989. He has already spent 17 months in jail. The trial
took just four hours, with international observers banned from it.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-9>
<H1>
Wilderness Protection Society criticises Federal Government
</H1>
The Wilderness Protection Society of Germany has accused the
Federal Government of having abandoned nature and environment protection
as a distinct area of policy. In an environmentalist reckoning at the
halfway mark of the current government term, the organisation is
especially critical of missed opportunities in the area of climate
protection. The government was still rejecting the introduction of an
energy tax and the "five liter car", pointing to Europe as an excuse,
the report said. However, in both cases it had been Bonn especially who
had worked towards making the introduction of ecological tax propsals in
EU member states difficult, President of the WPS Jochen Flassbart (sp?)
said. In the area of environmental policy, the Cabinet was under the
spell of the top-level of government, he added. Instead of regulations,
the government was devoting itself to vague statements of intent, such
as those on reducing carbondioxide emissions, Flassbart continued.
However, he said he saw real dedication and conviction in Environment
Minister Merkel.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-10>
<H1>
Georgia returns 100,000 books to Germany
</H1>
Georgia has returned some 100,000 valuable books to Germany that
had been taken to the Soviet Union from several German libraries after
the end of World War II. This is the first comprehensive return of
Soviet "loot art" since the 60ies. Among the books are some prints from
the time of Gutenberg, writings by Luther, and parts of the reference
library of Friedrich Schiller.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-11>
<H1>
Deutsche Bank head to resign in May
</H1>
Deutsche Bank CEO Hilmar Kopper will resign from his
post after the AGM in May 1997. The bank announced Kopper had asked to
be released from his duties on the board of executives. He will be
replaced by Rolf Breuer. Two other executives are also vacating their
seats. Kopper will transfer to the advisory board of the Deutsche Bank.
The changes are part of a number of personnel decisions at the top-level
made by the advisory board today.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-12>
<H1>
Birgen Air crash due to pilot error
</H1>
The crash of a Boeing 757 plane off the coast of the Dominican Republic
last February was due to pilot error, the report on the accident has
found. The report, leaked to the media today, mentions confusion and
lack of knowledge among the crew. For example, the Turkish crew had had
little experience with the systems and instruments of the plane. The
investigation into the crash has been a joint effort by the Dominican
and US aviation authorities. All 189 people on board the Turkish Birgen
Air plane had died in the crash, most of them German tourists.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-13>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg planning primary school fees for remedial classes
</H1>
The CDU/FDP government coalition in Baden-Wuerttemberg is
apparently planning to introduce fees for remedial classes at primary
schools from next summer. The dpa wire service quoted a spokesperson for
the Stuttgart Education Ministry. The spokesperson said the amount to be
paid had not yet been decided. The remedial classes are for those
children that have turned six and thus could start school, but who are
not yet mature enough.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-30-14>
<H1>
Boris Becker knocked out of Paris tournament
</H1>
Boris Becker has lost his second round match against Spaniard Carlos
Moya at the indoor tournament in Paris 3-6, 7-5, 4-6.

