<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-1>
<H1>
Top CDU and CSU members call for an end to talk about Kohl's successor
</H1>
Leader of the CSU and Federal Finance Minister, Theo Waigel has renewed
his calls for an end to the internal debate about parliamentary group
leader Schaeuble. The question of whether Schaeuble will definitely one
day become Kohl's successor is irrelevant at the present time, Waigel said
in Washington. He added that the CDU and CSU were entering into the
Bundestag election campaign with Kohl at the helm, and that they all had
to do their best to ensure that he was re-elected as Chancellor. CDU
Secretary-General Hintze emphasized that the CDU and CSU would continue to
choose joint leadership candidates into the future. He also called on the
sister parties to close ranks and enter into the election campaign working
together. Bavarian Premier Stoiber expressed similar sentiments, saying
that differences of opinion on factual questions must not be allowed to
lead to attacks on Schaeuble's integrity.
Despite all such calls for solidarity within the Union parties, some
members of the CSU continue to criticize Schaeuble's tack vis-a-vis the
Opposition.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-2>
<H1>
Red Cross workers abducted in Somalia
</H1>
Ten Red Cross workers have been abducted in Somalia, including a German
agricultural expert. According to information which the International
Committee of the Red Cross in Geneva received out of Nairobi, Kenya, none
of the workers have been injured. However, the reasons for the abduction
are still completely unclear. According to a Red Cross spokesman, there
have, as yet, been no demands made by the kidnappers. The word from Geneva
is that efforts are being made to procure the release of the abducted
workers, and that there was reason to be confident of success, because the
Red Cross had good ties to the clans fighting for power in Somalia. It is
still unknown who is behind the abduction. The Red Cross has so far
declined to confirm suspicions that the kidnappers were followers of Ali
Machtin (sp?), one of the most powerful clan leaders in the country.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-3>
<H1>
Third round of wage talks in construction industry
</H1>
There has apparently been some movement in the critical third round of
wage negotiations in the construction industry for Western Germany. The
Secretary-General of the Central Association of the German Construction
Industry, Schroer, said this evening in Mainz that negotiations were
proceeding apace. He indicated that employers and unions were working on a
package deal which both sides would hopefully be able to agree to. Schroer
did not mention any details. This round of talks began with demonstrations
for higher wages; there has been no such offer from the employers. The
Construction, Agriculture, and Environment union ("Bauen, Agrar und
Umwelt")is insisting on an increase in real income, and is calling for 4
percent higher wages. The employers, on the other hand, only want to
discuss a wage increase if it is compensated for by cuts in other areas;
they suggest cutting 3 vacation days a year. The union categorically
rejects that idea, Chairman Klaus Wiesenhuegel of the construction union
IG-Bau calling it sleight-of-hand to take money out of the one pocket of
the workers and put it back in the other.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-4>
<H1>
1.5 percent pay raise for civil servants
</H1>
Civil servants with the status of "official" ("Beamte") are receiving a
pay increase of 1.5 percent, retroactive to January 1. Employers and
unions, with Federal Internal Affairs Minister Kanther agreed upon this
settlement.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-5>
<H1>
Trial against two printers for double murder begins
</H1>
The double-murder trial against two magazine printers in Ellwangen has
begun. The Public Prosecutor's Office accuses the two women of gruesome
bloodlust and greed.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-15-6>
<H1>
Barmer health insurance calls for limit on number of doctors in Germany
</H1>
The substitute public health insurance company, Barmer, wants the number
of doctors in Germany to be limited by law. The federal government
announced as early as 1992 that it would pass such a law, but so far no
bill to that effect has been introduced in the Bundestag. Barmer's
chairman, Fiedler, said Germany already had too many doctors, and every
additional doctor gave rise to new costs; he added that in the middle
term, the number of practicing doctors in the country should even be
lowered. This strategy is the insurance company's response to the attempt
by doctors, faced with falling incomes, to bill patients directly, and at
higher than the state-approved rates, for more and more of their services.
Barmer is also demanding of the politicians that they allow doctors in
private practice to use expensive equipment in hospitals, for the reason
that the outfitting of private practices with high-tech equipment resulted
more and more often in unnecessary examinations and even treatments (to
justify the purchase price of the equipment).

