<DOC de-news-1998-11-10-1>
<H1>
Chancellor Schroeder delivers first executive statement
</H1>
Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder will make combating mass-unemployment the
main focus of his government. In his first executive statement before the
Parliament, Schroeder also announced a comprehensive modernisation of the
economy and the government. Tax reform, reduction of payroll taxes, investment
in the future and wage policy must be balanced in a sensible way. Schroeder
stressed that social policies implemented by the government led by Helmut Kohl
and the CDU, such as cuts in pensions, health services and salary payments
during long-term illnesses, as well as loosened protection against unlawful
firing, would be reversed. Schroeder also stated that all expenditures would
have to be curbed because of the high national debt. Kohl's government did not
leave behind a well-ordered house, as they claimed, rather budget risks than
run in the billions of DM. Regarding foreign policy, Schroeder said that his
government would continue to set the pace in European reforms.
Opposition Leader Wolfgang Schaeuble said Schroeder's executive statement had
no substance. In his opinion, the SPD and the Greens were moving backwards
into a false past. Business associations feel that the tax and energy policies
of the new government will endanger jobs. Environmental groups think that the
ecological reforms do not go far enough. The German Federation of Trade Unions
welcomed the executive statement as proof of political change.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-10-2>
<H1>
Criticism of tax and pension reform plans
</H1>
The tax and pension plans of the federal government have sparked a new
debate. Employers criticise the proposed tax reform, despite changes already
made, as hostile to the middle class and detrimental to jobs. Employers also
reject the idea of an earlier retirement age. The Association of Pension Plan
Providers (Rentenversicherungstraeger) also expressed scepticism of the pension
reform plans. In contrast to the employers, pension providers believe that the
plan gives businesses the advantage.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-10-3>
<H1>
Federal government considers forgiving debt for Central America
</H1>
The federal government intends to examine the possibility of forgiving
loans of the countries devastated by hurricane Mitch. In the interim, the
Federal Finance Ministry has released an additional 10 million DM to help
rebuild the Central American countries. The World Bank is supporting the
countries with immediate assistance in the amount of 330 million DM. After an
emergency meeting, the presidents of the affected Central American countries
made a plea for international aid in rebuilding. The scope of the catastrophe,
they said, exceeds the means of their countries.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-10-4>
<H1>
Reinhard Klimt is the new prime minister of Saarland
</H1>
The SPD-chairman of Saarland Klimmt was elected to be the new prime minister
of Saarland. The Landtag (state parliament)  in Saarbruecken had chosen the
56 year old politician by an absolute majority of votes of the SPD against
the votes of the CDU and the Green Party. Klimt had been working very closely
together with the former prime minister Lafontaine, who is the current finance
minister in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-10-5>
<H1>
Ex-Stasi collaborators are allowed to keep their Landtag mandates
</H1>
Three PDS-delegates which were found to have had a some connection
with the Stasi, are allowed to continue being members of the Saxonian Landtag.
The Saxonian constitutional court in Leipzig turned down the motion of
the state parliament to deprive their seats in the Landtag. The judges did
not examine the case in that matter since the motion of the delegates had
been handed in too late. According to the judges, the motion should have been
handed in immediately after the last election, because their collaboration with
the Stasi had been discovered in the first legislative period of the Landtag.

