<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-1>
<H1>
Sick pay negotiations in metals and electronics fail
</H1>
Negotiations to end the wage conflict in the metals and
electronics industry failed this morning. The leaders of the union IG
Metall, and the industry's employers' association could not resolve the
conflict over full sick pay over their three-day negotiations. Thus, the
hoped-for "total package" - which was also to have regulated holiday pay,
Christmas pay, part-time work for the elderly, as well as pay raises for
1997 - did not become reality. Union leader Zwickel said the main points
of contention were sick pay as well as holiday and Christmas pay. Zwickel
accused the employers of squandering the chance of an agreement for the
second time this year. He continued that their inability to compromise would
threaten the basic wage agreement, too. Zwickel said the employers were
afraid of a compromise and were just pushing the conflict into the regions
and individual companies. He also accused them of trying to break the basic
wage agreement and not being interested in really solving the problems.
The leader of the employers' association, Stumpfe, said that sick pay was
now a matter for individual companies to decide, and that the negotiations
would return to the regional level. Stumpfe criticized the union, saying
it had rejected out-of-hand all suggestions for lowering the costs
associated with sick pay. He also indicated that sick pay, as well as part-time
work for the elderly, would not be addressed at all in the basic wage agreement
in the future. Furthermore, he said, there would be no more high-level
discussions in the foreseeable future.
<P>
With the failure of negotiations, industry unions have announced that they
will proceed with tougher measures. The union IG Metall is planning a day
of action tomorrow, with nation-wide protests. Demonstrations and
converging marches are among the plans in several federal states. Theses
measures are also supposed to remember the beginning of a labour strike in
the industry that began exactly 40 years ago and which led to workers'
receiving full pay while on sick leave. The state union leader for
Baden-Wurttemberg, Zambelli, said the conflict will now be taken to the
work site. He declared his readiness to try again to negotiate a national
settlement on the issue of sick pay in the talks for the south-west region
on Monday.
The representative of Baden-Wurttemberg's metals and electronics
employers, Hundt, called on the union to let the courts rule on the issue
of sick pay.
<P>
The Baden-Wurttemberg branch of the Metals Industry Association has, in
the meantime, repeated its position, that companies are justified in
cutting sick pay to 80 percent of normal wages despite any wage
agreements. However, the organization would be understanding of any other
arrangements that companies might make, given the difficulty of the
(legal) situation.
<P>
Several large companies have announced, meanwhile, that they will continue
to give their employees full sick pay. The list includes Daimler-Benz,
originally one of the first businesses that wanted to cut sick pay.
Daimler will now - like BMW, Opel, or Siemens - wait for a final
settlement.
Chancellor Kohl called on union and management to stop bickering.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-2>
<H1>
One injured in attacks on rail lines
</H1>
There were attacks on rail lines n northern Germany again this
morning. One locomotive engineer was injured. In both cases, metal grappling
hooks were thrown among the overhead electrical cables which power the
trains. Rail traffic between Hamburg and Bremen, and between Hamburg and
Kiel came largely to a stop. Militant opponents of shipments of nuclear
waste to an intermediate depot in Gorleben in Lower Saxony are thought to be
responsible.
The last few years have seen a total of 250 attacks on rail lines, of
which 200 have been in Lower Saxony.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-3>
<H1>
Continued disagreement over nuclear waste shipments
</H1>
Federal Environment Minister Merkel insists that the next CASTOR
(cask for storage and transport of radioactive material) shipment
of nuclear waste take place before the spring of 1997. Merkel said in a
newspaper interview that although it was up to the federal states to
determine the best schedule for the shipments, it could not be drawn out
indefinitely.
Lower Saxony's Internal Affairs Minister Glogowski announced yesterday
that shipments from the nuclear power plants in Neckarwestheim and
Gundremmingen would be delayed until spring, as the state could not
guarantee the necessary police protection for the shipments.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-4>
<H1>
Cabinet wants to end electrical monopoly
</H1>
The federal cabinet has passed a bill to change the law governing
the supply of electricity. The changes are intended to end the regional
monopolies in electric power. Cities and counties will then no longer be
able to grant the right of way for power lines to one supplier
exclusively. The market for natural gas is to be similarly opened.
Government plans will let households and businesses pick which supplier
will deliver their power in the future. According to Federal Economic
Minister Rexrodt, the changes will lead to lower electricity and gas
prices for everyone; based on the example of Great Britain, Rexrodt hopes
for a medium-term drop in price of 20 to 30 percent.
Rexrodt's law is hotly debated. The SPD and the Green Party, as well as
cities and counties have already announced their opposition. The SPD and
the Greens fear that prices would fall only for large-scale purchasers,
while private homes would have to pay more. Municipalities fear the loss
of income in the billions of marks if earnings from municipal power plants
dried up. Since the law does not provide for any duty to funnel through
electricity on large overland lines, the Greens complained that "what Rexrodt
is doing is like giving all the autobahns to Mercedes and not letting VWs
drive on them any more". Further criticism was that the law did not fulfill the
requirements of the European Union.
Environmentalists also expressed criticism. The Opposition rejects lower
power prices as being bad for the environment. The Association for the
Protection of Nature spoke of an invitation to waste energy. The
organization also said that alternate sources of energy would suffer under
free competition.
The new energy law still has to be approved by the Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-5>
<H1>
Kohl to lend support to Hanover bid for Expo 2000
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl wants to lend his personal support to Hanover's bid
for the World Expo 2000. Kohl told an audience of 36 German economic
leaders that he had no doubt that the money to finance the exposition
would be found. Costs are estimated at 3 billion marks. German industry
had promised 50 million marks at the beginning of the year; so far only 6
million marks have been made available.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-6>
<H1>
New dispute over German-Czech declaration
</H1>
There is a new dispute between Bonn and Bavaria over the
German-Czech Declaration. Government spokesman Haussmann emphasized
Chancellor Kohl's goal of having the declaration completed this year. He
thus contradicted Bavaria's Premier Stoiber who had questioned the
government's schedule. According to Stoiber, relations between Prague and
Bonn would not suffer if the so-called "Schlussstrich" (approximately:
"last chapter") Declaration were not signed for another one, two, or even
five years. He said there were still too many controversial points in the
negotiations that could not be settle that quickly. Among other things,
Stoiber continues to insist that the declaration use the word "expulsion"
(Vertreibung) in connection with the removal of Sudeten Germans from Czech
territory after World War II.
The two sides have been negotiating for more than a year and a half; the
declaration is supposed to change German-Czech relations forever.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-7>
<H1>
Record number of bankruptcies anticipated
</H1>
This year is expected to see a record number of bankruptcies in
Germany, leading to 400,000 lost jobs. A large non-profit credit enquiry
agency in Munich (Verband der Vereine Creditreform e.V.) announced that an
increase of 3,700 cases, to a total of 32,500, was expected. The Federal
Statistics Office indicated that the first 7 months of this year saw
18,000 insolvencies registered, of which almost 15,000 were businesses.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-23-8>
<H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg to support investors in Latin America
</H1>
The federal state of Baden-Wurttemberg wants to support
businesses that get involved in Latin America. State Premier Teufel made a
speech to that effect at the opening of the state government's "Latin
America Day" in Stuttgart. Teufel said the subcontinent was one of the
most promising and dynamic markets in the world.
According to the premier, exports from Baden-Wurttemberg to Latin America
were 17 percent higher in 1995 than in the previous year.

