<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-1>
<H1>
In Memory of Hans-Martin Schleyer
</H1>
 German President Herzog has demanded that the German people take a
decisive stand in favor of the constitutional state.  Numerous celebrities
from politics and economics assembled in Stuttgart to commemorate Hans-Martin
Schleyer, who was murdered by the RAF 20 years ago.  President Herzog warned
against the belief that the danger of terrorism might be banished forever.
In his speech, he once again evoked the acts of terrorism by the RAF.
Contrary to what some predicted, and what others claim, Germany did not
turn into an oppressive police state, nor did the state make concessions to
the terrorists. Herzog continued, however, that it is a bold hope that  
the
danger of terrorist violence was banished forever. In a sense, our law
regulates normal cases; for borderline cases, we will have to continue to
make decisions outside the dominion of normed instructions. The
constitutional state is vulnerable, Herzog said, and he appealed to the
German people not to be mere onlookers to democracy but to actively engage  
in
it.  Democracy and democratic institutions have to be protected, preserved,
and developed. Democracy and democratic institutions are constantly on
trial.  But they are not here in vain.  They are here to serve us, all of u 
s.
This is the reason why  it is up to us--up to all of us--to protect them 
In that Herzog sees the legacy of Hans-Martin Schleyer.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-2>
<H1>
Arguments about Chancellor Kohl's successor continue
</H1>
It was Helmut Kohl himself who allowed the discussions about his
successor-to-be to flare up again.
Now, after an extremely uncontentious party conference, there are again
several timetables proposed for Kohls replacement.  The FDP wants to keep
the Chancellor, which is no surprise: the Liberals owe their image within the
coalition above all to Kohl.  Heiner Geissler, who is second in command in
the CDU Bundestag parliamentary party and thus Wolfgang Schaeubles deputy,
obviously wants to take Helmut Kohl by his word.  In a newspaper interview,
Geissler said that, basically, he considers Kohls vote a very good
proposal, but that it only makes sense if the change would happen soon. CDU
parliamentary party leader of Baden-Wuerttemberg, Oettinger, demanded in an
interview that Kohl yield his position to Schaeuble in time for the Bundestag
elections in 2002.  Yet, just two days ago the Chancellor made it clear that
if he wins the elections in 1998, he intends to stay in office for the entire
legislative period.  Consequently, CDU secretary-general Hintze criticized
the internal discussions about the timing of Kohls replacement as absolutely
superfluous.  CSU party leader Waigl also stayed out of the debates about
Kohls successor.  This time, said Waigl, there are no arguments over
personnel; decisions in factual matters are of more importance.  CSU
parliamentary leader Glos dared to be somewhat more upfront; he said that
fundamentally, Schaeuble will be an appropriate successor.  However, the
decision is not due until 2002, at which time it should be possible for
the CSU to name the next Chancellor after Kohl will have completed his
term.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-3>
<H1>
Vehement arguements within the coalition about wages over 610 Marks
</H1>
Within the coalition, open fights have broken out about the so-called
610-Mark-Jobs, jobs that are not eligible for social benefits.  The CDU wants
to tax these kinds of jobs, whereas for the FDP this is out of the question 
This time, however, the CSU/CDU have the SPD and the trade unions on their
side.  It is therefore questionable how much longer the Liberals will be able
to keep up their resistance.  Since yesterdays coalition talks in the
Chancellors office brought no agreement with regard to the 610-Mark-Jobs,
the opposing parties again exchange their arguments via the media.  For
instance, Minister of Employment, Norbert Bluem, complained in a radio
interview that many companies aim to turn normal jobs into 610-Mark-Jobs in
order to save on benefit payments. According to Bluem, such an evasion of
mandatory contributions can no longer be tolerated.  His fellow party member,
CDU social expert Julius Louven, showed disappointment about the FDPs strict
"No" with regard to abolishing, or at least restricting, jobs that are
not eligible for social benefits.  FDP Secretary-General, Guido
Westerwelle, on the other hand, emphasized again that his party does not
want to make any changes to the existing procedures.  According to
Westerwelle, the abolition of 610-Mark-Jobs would not create new jobs, but
instead more off-the-books work.  Westerwelle said it would make more
sense to eliminate the cause of potential misuse, which is the exorbitant
burden of taxes and contributions.  The SDP removed themselves from the
discussion, but the trade unions have meanwhile started to contribute.
Vice-chair of the DGB, Ursula Engelen-Kaefer, agreed with the criticism of
the CDU/CSU that 610-Mark-Jobs offer employers an easy loophole and
prevent attractive part-time opportunities.  For instance,  Ms.
Engelen-Kaefer said it would be a step in the right direction if the
monthly wage minimum for contribution-free jobs would fall at 350 Marks.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-4>
<H1>
Election program of Greens triggers disputes within party
</H1>
The election program of the Green Party has triggered a massive dispute
within the party.  The contrast between the two party groups, the "Realos"  
and
the "Fundis," has not been more dramatic in months.  A specific point of
contention is apparently the demand of the disintegration of the NATO.
State delegates have been promoting their personal opinions for months;
now, the federal party leadership has got involved in the dispute over the
draft for the Green Party program for next years Bundestag election.
After the conference, all those who were expecting guiding words of
appeasement found themselves disappointed.  The leadership ranks of the
Buendnis 90/The Greens gave off extremely diverse signals.  Although Gunda
Roestel, chairwoman of the executive board in East Germany, called vast
parts of the disputed program future-oriented and realistic, even she
wanted to further improve the charter, especially the chapters on economy
and foreign policy.  Otherwise, said Roestel, her party might take a fall
at the 1998 elections.  The demands for the disintegration of the NATO and
the abolition of compulsory military service received special criticism;
but these are demands that second party spokesman, Juergen Trittin,
expressively endorses, and Trittin received support from the Bundestag
faction.  Spokeswoman Kerstin Mueller said that a program also needs room
for utopic ideals; on the other hand, demands have to be able to be
realized immediately.  Mueller therefore demanded a 100-day-program at a
party discussion.  Mueller's program proposed steps against unemployment,
new rights for citizens, as well as an antidiscrimination code, and urged
a turn in drug policy.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-5>
<H1>
No clues yet in finding the child abuser
</H1>
There is still no trace of the man who kidnapped and sexually abused a
young girl from Lower Franconia last night.  Around midnight, the ten-year
old girl was discovered by two women on a public road and brought to the
local police station.  The speaker of the precinct in Schweinfurt
reconstructed the crime: The children had been playing when the man
approached them, threatened them with a gun, tied them up and took the
little girl with him.  Presumably he drove towards Thuringia in a red VW
Polo.  10-year old Christine was reported missing at first.  Finally, shortly
before midnight there was a frightening certainty: the child was sexually
abused.  Police have conducted a major search--with no results so far.
The police search covers a huge terrain--how huge, the police did not want
to reveal.  A helicopter is supposed to be put into action.  Police in
Schweinfurt work closely with police in Suhl and Meiningen in Thuringia
on the case.  They are searching for an approximately 50-year old man,
1.75m tall, slender built, gray beard and balding in front.  He has
tattoos on his chest, his stomach, and his arms.  He was heard to speak
Thuringian dialect.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-18-6>
<H1>
Good-bye to Matthias Hinze
</H1>
More than 300 people participated in the funeral service for the murdered
Matthias Hinze in Potsdam.  The 20-year old man was abducted in front of
his parents house five weeks ago and later died a painful death in a hole
in the ground in Mecklenburg.  The kidnappers demanded one million marks
ransom from the parents.  The town of Geltow, and especially the family of
Matthias Hinze, had the heartfelt sympathy of the people as they said
their last good-bye to the 20-year old today in the town church.  In the
flower-covered altar room, a life-size portrait of Matthias Hinze was
flanked by members of the voluntary fire department to salute their dead
colleague for the last time.  In his sermon, minister Johannes Kirtscher
recalled the love of life of the young man from Geltow one last time.
Rev. Kirtscher said he knew Matthias Hinze for a long time, that they
spent time together at retreats, and that he confirmed him.  On
September 14, Matthias Hinze was abducted by the so-called Russian Mafia;
on October 8, he was found dead in a hole in the ground in
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.  The actual burial of Matthias Hinze was
yesterday, with only the most intimate family members present.  Also, for
today's ceremony the family insisted that th media would not be permitted
inside.

