<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-1>
<H1>
Fatal train wreck in North Hessia
</H1>
Six persons were killed and several seriously injured - that is the
tragic result of a train wreck in North Hessia.  The victims have
been identified by now.  Shortly before nine o'clock on Saturday
morning, for reasons not discovered as yet, steel pipes loaded on a
freight train had become loose.  In the process, one of the pipes
which was 15 meters long, one meter thick and weighed six tons had
bored into the approaching regional express train Frankfurt-Kassel,
which had 350 passengers, and had ripped open the entire length of
the last of the six doubledecker cars.  A 50 year old Swedish
woman, a 32 year old and a 16 year old from the Giessen district,
two men from Berlin, one 21, the other 18, and a 32 year old woman
from Ghana who had sought asylum in Germany and resided in the
Rheingau, all these persons lost their lives.  Two seriously
injured children aged 5 and 11 are no longer in critical condition.
The district attorney's office is investigating the accident.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-2>
<H1>
Taxpayers' Alliance warns against postponement of tax reform
</H1>
The Taxpayers' Alliance has rejected the proposal to postpone tax
reform until next year's federal elections are over.  The deputy
president of the organization, Mr. Lau, told the OLDENBURGER
NORDWESTZEITUNG that it was impossible to wait that long.  His
remarks were made in reaction to statements made by the minister
president of Lower Saxony, Mr. Schroeder.  Mr. Lau emphasized that
the high tax burden, which clearly had to be lowered, had given
impetus to tax reform.  He called for the federal government to
see this reform through in spite of any and all opposition.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-3>
<H1>
Hintze calls Europe and monetary reform policies election issues
</H1>
CDU-Secretary General Hintze referred to policies toward Europe and
monetary reform as key issues of next year's election campaign.
Additionally, the CDU wanted to make the election the deciding
factor concerning direction between the Coalition on the one side
and, as he put it to the NEUE OSNABRUECKER ZEITUNG, the left wing
of the SPD, Greens and PDS on the other.  He also stated that the
pressure to discuss these issues would be increased so that the
Social Democrats would no longer be able to block major reforms.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-4>
<H1>
Vogel demands end to discussion concerning introduction of Euro
</H1>
Minister President Vogel of Thuringia has called for the
politically responsible to end the discussion about the
introduction of the common European currency.  The politician told
the LEIPZIGER VOLKSZEITUNG that it was important now to prepare
seriously for the Euro and that it was most important to get the
economy ready for it.  At the same time, he referred to watering
down the criteria for stability as harmful both politically and
economically.

In the meantime, the deputy head of the DGB [the alliance of
unions], Ms.  Engelen-Kefer, has threatened that the unions and the
SPD would refuse approval to the Euro if there were to be further
cuts to social programs.  Speaking to the Cologne daily, EXPRESS,
she criticized the Federal Republic for acting frivolously in the
matter of the projected monetary union.  She added that the
balances would now have to adjusted with more slight of hand tricks
because Bonn had agreed to a deficit criterion of 3.0 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-5>
<H1>
Merkel is for agreement on atomic waste disposal
</H1>
 The federal minster for the environment, Ms. Merkel, urges a
quick agreement with the SPD concerning atomic waste disposal.
During a newspaper interview, the minister explained her statement
by pointing out that the next castor transport from Neckarwestheim,
the atomic energy station in Baden-Wuerttemberg, is to take place
as early as during the next few months.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-6>
<H1>
Federal army equipped with Eurofighter
</H1>
 The German army is being equipped with the fighter plane
"Eurofighter."  Minister for Finance Waigel said in Augsburg that
the European fighter plane is included in the 1998 budget and in
midterm planning.  He said that the decision had been necessitated
for national and international reasons.  Acquisition of 180 of
these planes is projected by 2014.  Total cost will be 23 billion
marks.  In the meantime, Federal Minister for Finance Waigel
confirmed that the new debt in the current budget will rise to
approximately 70 billion and will thus surpass investments by
approximately 10 billion.  In the 1998 budget, the debt will then
be slightly less than the projected investments of 58 billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-7>
<H1>
Party convention to study prospects held by Bavarian Greens
</H1>
The Bavarian Greens have been dealing with their prospects since
Friday.  At the state convention in Bayreuth, the delegates want to
round out their concept and determine their future course.  They
are most concerned about economic, social and educational policies.
With this convention to study their prospects, the Bavarian Greens
want to bring a fresh impetus to their program, want to open up to
new concepts and ideas.  Not only politicians and interested
persons but also critics and experts from scholarly fields,
economics and various groups are to discuss these issues openly.
There are to be no concrete decisions, rather the Greens want to
determine weak areas in their positions and look for new
strategies- also looking ahead to the 1998 elections.  State
Chairperson Ruth Paulig commented on the goals of the convention:
"We want to point out that the Greens have the concepts needed for
the solution of the problems of the future.  We want to combine
economics and ecology; we want to verify our basic security system;
and we want to start an offensive in educational policies because
the future world of work and world-wide living together in the
future, require different forms of education and training and we
want to make ourselves strong for these purposes."  These topics
are to be discussed in detail in several forums.  Specifically
among the topics for consideration, will be the discussion of
university and transportation politics, new energy sources and
local environmental projects.  At the end of the convention on
Sunday, there will be a podium discussion on the topic "Alliance
for a Bavaria ready to take on the future."

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-8>
<H1>
Number of youthful offenders continues to increase
</H1>
The number of youthful offenders continues to increase in Germany.
This was also shown in the crime statistics for 1996 which were
presented less than three weeks ago.  In the face of this, the
Federal Minister for Justice, Mr. Edward Schmidt-Jortzig, pleads
for the expansion of existing coercive measures. The measures
applied by the child and youth assistance agencies to fight
youthful criminality have been employed too seldom so far, the
Minister thinks.  If necessary, it should be possible to make
youths whose behavior has become conspicuously criminal enter
confined facilities to be brought up there, especially if the
parents can no longer control their children.  To be sure, the law
provides for such placement if the well-being of the children
necessitates it.  The parents have to initiate such placement,
however.  Mr. Schmidt-Jortzig is critical of this procedure because
it rarely works out in practice.  Quote: "If children offend
against the law,. the parents often remove themselves from any
responsibility by saying that the children have outgrown parental
authority; they are helpless in the matter; they can't have or
won't have anything to do with it."  In the future, he continued
more use should be made of depriving parents of guardianship and
giving it to a legal guardian, who could then place the youthful
offender into a confined facility.  Minister of the Interior
Manfred Kanther submitted criminal statistics for last year only
three weeks ago.  According to this report, the number of youths
between 14-18 suspected of criminal activities in 1996 has risen by
approximately 9 per cent compared to the 1995 statistics; the
number of children suspected of crimes may even have risen by 12
per cent in comparison to the 1995 figures.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-05-9>
<H1>
Michael Stich eliminated at Wimbledon semi-finals
</H1>
At the Wimbledon tennis tournament, Michael Stich was eliminated
during the semi-finals.  He was beaten in five sets by the French
player Cedrik Piolin. Previously, the American Pete Sampas had
reached the finals by beating the Australian Todd Woodbridge.
By being eliminated at Wimbledon, Michael Stich concluded his
tennis career prematurely.  Stich declared it finished after losing
the semi-finals.  Thus, after having announced that he would stop
playing tennis in the fall, the 28 year old man from Elmshorn
retired a few months earlier than he had intended.  To be sure, he
did not exclude the possibility of playing for Germany one more
time this year at the Davis Cup match.

