<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-1>
<H1>
High ozone levels: no driving ban in Bavaria yet
</H1>
Despite extremely hot weather, at the moment there is no driving ban
planned in Bavaria for vehicles without either a catalytic converter or
low-pollution fuels. According to the Bavarian Environment Ministry, no
decision will be made until the release of new data on ozone levels. The
ozone alarm threshold is 240 micrograms per cubic metre of air.
While such a ban has been in effect since 6 o'clock this morning in four
of the federal states, police in Stuttgart and Frankfurt are reporting
that traffic volumes have barely been affected..
High temperatures are expected to retain their hold on Germany until
tomorrow, when the Federal Environment Office expects some relief,
allowing the concentration of ozone also to fall to more acceptable
levels.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-2>
<H1>
CDU and CSU begin final phase of election campaign
</H1>
The federal election campaign is heating up with the release today of the
third and final part of the joint CDU-CSU campaign platform. In it, the
sister parties assess their own past economic policies as - on the whole -
positive, speak of a turn-around in the labour market, and confirm their
plans for massive tax reforms. The central object of the tax reforms would
be granting Germans 30 billion DM in tax relief.
On the topic of policies concerning resident 'foreigners', CSU leader Theo
Waigel presented the parties' platform: "Germany is cosmopolitan and
hospitable, but it is not a land of immigration. Therefore, our platform
openly favours: limitations on immigration, consistent repatriation of
civil war refugees, further limitations on which family members immigrants
can have follow them to Germany; furthermore, anyone abusing our
hospitality must live with the consequences. We also do not want to allow
double citizenship or automatic access to a German passport through simply
being born within our borders. For anyone who wants to become a German,
citizenship will be the last stage of integration, not the first. That
means mastery of the German language, and allegiance to German culture,
democratic order, and our laws."
The platform document sets a clear direction for the Bundestag elections
in September. According to the leadership of the sister parties, this
autumn will see a major decision about the direction of German policies
for the future.
CDU and CSU claim that the current economic upswing confirms the efficacy
of their reform policies. Federal Chancellor, and leader of the CDU,
Helmut Kohl, is betting that confidence is spreading also among the
voters. Kohl, in the names of both CDU and CSU, again rejected the notion
of a Great Coalition with the SPD.
The SPD accused CDU and CSU leaders of deceiving voters by claiming to be
in the middle of the political spectrum, but being willing, if necessary,
to accept toleration-support from the socialist PDS party.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-3>
<H1>
Mehmet's future remains uncertain
</H1>
Even after the decision of the Bavarian Administrative Court, that state's
Internal Affairs Minister, Beckstein, plans to continue efforts to have
the convicted 14-year-old deported. In an interview, the CSU politician
said he would take every legally allowable means to have the boy removed
from the country. Beckstein justified his position on the basis of fear of
possible future victims of the boy's documented extreme aggressiveness.
The Bavarian Administrative Court yesterday allowed an appeal against  a
deportation order by the Munich Administrative Court. Mehmet and his
parents can therefore remain in Germany for now.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-4>
<H1>
Kaufhof department store extortionists sentenced
</H1>
The two men, aged 21 and 23, tried in a case of extortion involving the
Kaufhof department store have been sentenced to three-and-a-half and to
two years in prison. The Regional Court in Stuttgart found them both
guilty of extortion. They had threatened to poison foodstuffs sold at
Kaufhof outlets, and had demanded 200,000 DM.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-5>
<H1>
Kohl will resign party leadership if election is lost
</H1>
In the event of a defeat in next month's federal election, Helmut Kohl
will resign as leader of the CDU. In presenting his party's election
platform, Kohl said that would be the only logical course of action,
although he fully expects voters to return the Coalition to power in
September.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-6>
<H1>
Opposition favours tougher 'summer smog law'
</H1>
The federal Opposition has sharply criticized, among other things, the
exceptions allowed under a restricted ban on driving issued due to
pollution concerns when condition merit. Federal Environment Minister,
Merkel, has been accused of an utter failure to address the problem
effectively with the current law, which has been in effect since 1995.
Merkel refuted the criticism, saying that the German 'ozone law' was "the
toughest in the world".

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-7>
<H1>
Study of child poverty presented
</H1>
In a study on child poverty, experts concluded that poor children suffer
from serious asthma more often than others. The study took the following
factors into account: whether the parents smoke, the family lives in damp
dwellings, or the children are exposed to more traffic noise. Over a
2-year period, scientists observed 4400 9- to 11-year-old children in
Munich. The results: severe asthma is 2.4 times more prevalent among the
lower social classes than the higher ones. Boys are especially affected.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-12-8>
<H1>
Gas accident at waste incinerator in Fuerth
</H1>
According to officials, 59 people were injured in an incident at a waste
incinerating facility in Fuerth when, for reasons as yet unknown, exhaust
gases escaped. Officials say there was never any danger to the public.

