<DOC de-news-1997-03-30-1>
<H1>
The churches' Easter message
</H1>
Representatives of the two large Christian churches have encouraged the people
not to despair despite the difficult times.  The chairman of the Council of
the Protestant Church of Germany, Mr. Engelhard, has voiced opposition to an
anti-social economic system.  Even though self-interest is one of the driving
forces behind market economy, that should not degenerate into destructive
egoism.  The Bible's Easter message stands for a culture of compassion,
Engelhard said.  In his Easter sermon the suffragan bishop of Hamburg,
Jaschke, called for the creation of a climate of renewal.  He said the
challenges of employment, economic and social policy need a fresh spirit.  One
should not accept that new ideas are being blocked by group interests.  The
chairman of the German Council of Catholic Bishops, Bishop Karl Lehmann of
Mainz, has called for a reconciliation on the personal and national levels.
In his Easter sermon in the cathedral of Mainz, Lehmann said that if the
message of Easter was internalized, reconciliation would be at the center of
any policy.  Then one would see society turn away from prejudices and
contempt for people, Lehmann continued.  Bishop Maria Jebsen of Hamburg
demanded more Christian and social causes in society.  With reference to the
repatriation of civil war refugees from Bosnia, Ms. Jebsen said that the way
they are being deported is shameful.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-30-2>
<H1>
Ministry of Health denies "Bild" report
</H1>
 The Federal Ministry of Health has denied a report of the weekly
newspaper "Bild am Sonntag" which announced major cuts in welfare assistance.
But Minister Seehofer confirmed that all so-called one-time payments of social
welfare assistance will be settled in lump sums.  For most welfare recipients,
that will not mean lower aid checks, Seehofer said.  The savings of 250
million Marks will come from a reduction in administrative costs.  "Bild am
Sonntag" had reported that according to the plans of the Ministry of Health,
adults will receive 570 Marks for clothes and shoes per year instead of the
current amount of 609 Marks.  Furthermore the Ministry recommends that welfare
recipients be given more used clothes and furniture.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-30-3>
<H1>
Former BR director-general has died
</H1>
The former director-general of the radio and TV station "Bayrischer
Rundfunk" (BR), Reinhold Voeth, is dead.  He has died this afternoon at age 67
of heart failure as a consequence of his kidney disease.  Voeth, originally
from Wuerzburg, was director of the BR from 1972 until 1990.  Before that he
had worked in politics for many years.  He was best known as Secretary of
State in the Bavarian Ministry of Labor.  For the last six years, Voeth was
president of the Bavarian Red Cross.  In a first reaction today, BR
director-general Scharf acknowledged his predecessor as unwavering fighter for
public broadcast.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-30-4>
<H1>
Grand Prix of Brazil
</H1>
The Canadian Jacques Villeneuve has won the grand prix of Brazil.  This was
the second out of 17 competition to qualify for the Formula I World
Championships.  Micheal Schumacher of Kerpen came in fifth.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-30-5>
<H1>
Weather
</H1>
During the night, only in some areas clear, otherwise cloudy and in some
places rain.  Snow in higher elevations, 4 to -1 degrees.  On Easter Monday
mostly cloudy.  In the East and Southeast rain or drizzle.  During the day, the
clouds are clearing from the West and temperatures get milder.  Highs between 5
and 15 degrees.

