<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-1>
<H1>
Conflict over deportation of Kosovo-Albanians
</H1>
Even after the urgent appeal for peace made by the United Nations to the
parties involved in the Kosovo conflict the crisis continues to simmer in
the troubled Serbian province. The political leadership of the
Kosovo-Albanians rejected a call for dialogue issued by the Serbian
government. Meanwhile in Germany the controversy over the deportation of
Kosovo-Albanians has heated up. Prior to today's conference of interior
ministers the federal government's commissioner for Balkan affairs, Dietmar
Schleh, speaking on Bayerischer Rundfunk radio, pleaded for a united stance
on the issue: "Actually, I am relatively confident that we will arrive at a
joint approach. In any case, it can't be that one or the other side will
not realize how important it is for everybody to tow the same line. If
potential refugees see that there is disunity, then a wrong signal will be
sent, a copycat effect will develop, we will then have to carry the Kosovo
refugee problem to an even larger extent than is the case right now, and I
believe that everybody involved will see this point and that we will
eventually achieve a uniform position."

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-2>
<H1>
German car industry experiences sales boom
</H1>
German car makers have clearly produced more vehicles compared to the same
month last year. The association of the German motor vehicle industry
reported an increase of 8%. This positive trend would probably lead to a
slight increase in employment in the industry, the body said.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-3>
<H1>
Double-edged awards
</H1>
The Bavarian Greens will today for the first time award the "Green" and
"Rusty Rail" prizes for especially good or specifically bad achievements in
transport infrastructure policy. The CSU politician Adolf Heinrich von
Arnim achieved positive recognition for, amongst others, his involvement in
the "Pro Bahn" (pro rail) initiative. In contrast, first recipient of the
"rusty" award was Interior Secretary of State Alfred Sauter (CSU). He was
jointly responsible for a policy which emphasised the unrestrained
expansion of the road network in Bavaria, the Greens reasoned.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-4>
<H1>
Meagre success rate for smoking habit defeating substances
</H1>
It is a rocky road to becoming a non-smoker: there are only limited chances
of success for those trying to quit smoking by resorting to nicotine
substitutes. According to a British study there is in the long term a high
rate of relapse. After nearly two years every fourth smoker who has, for
example, used a nicotine spray, will again be dependent on tobacco.
Overall, though, the success rate is still better than with people
attempting to quit smoking without using any nicotine substitutes.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-5>
<H1>
Government and industry at odds over jobs
</H1>
The Federal Minister for Science and Technology Ruettgers is convinced that
there will be 500,000 fewer unemployed in Germany by next summer. In a
radio interview the CDU politician declared that figures proved that the
economic up-turn had arrived and that German industry was once again
competitive. Ruettgers said that he reckoned with an extra 90,000 new jobs
in the communication industry alone. In contrast, the president of the
employers federation Hundt has qualified his announcement of the creation
of 500,000 new jobs. He conceded that by the end of the day only 200,000
new employment opportunities would remain because jobs were continued to be
abolished.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-6>
<H1>
Number of drug-related deaths in Germany decreasing
</H1>
Fewer people in Germany have died of narcotic drug consumption in the last
year compared to the previous year. The Federal Government's annual report
lists 1501 fatalities, 211 fewer than in the preceding twelve months. A
drastic increase, however, has been recorded with first-time users, this
figure rising by almost 20% to 20,500 persons. The highest number of new
narcotic drug users was registered in Bavaria. More than a fifth of all
persons which came to the attention of police in relation to hard drugs
came from the Free State.
The demand for synthetic drugs continues. The greatest cause for concern
for the Federal Government is that an increasing number of young people
move to so-called happy pills. The drug report states that ecstasy remains
the trendiest drug of the nineties. It was especially used by members of
the middle class between the age of 16 and 25. The Federal Government's
commissioner on drugs, Eduard Lintner, called on parents, teachers and
clubs and associations to form an alliance of prevention. At the same time,
however, the CSU politician continues to vehemently oppose the
decriminalisation of the use of soft narcotic drugs like marijuana.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-7>
<H1>
CSU demands higher standards in Bavarian schools
</H1>
With the votes of its CSU majority the Bavarian state parliament's standing
committee for education  passed a  motion demanding more direct
responsibility for schools themselves: more co-operation between parents
and teachers, improved qualifications of educators, and increased
utilisation of the new media. Furthermore the CSU wants to commence a
school pilot project in which the first and second levels of primary school
are combined to a single two-year beginners level. The SPD, on the other
hand, was unsuccessful with its motion which called for a concrete concept
including a detailed financial plan for a broad reform of the school system.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-8>
<H1>
States reject changes to fiscal equalisation
</H1>
During their meeting in Bonn the state finance ministers have rejected the
demands of Bavaria and Baden-Wuerttemberg for a reformation of the fiscal
equalisation arrangement currently in place  between the federal states.
Sources said that the two states had stood isolated on the issue. Munich
and Stuttgart demanded that the system of financial transfers between the
states - set in law - be changed. In future the wealthier states should
transfer less money to the financially poorer regions. The finance minister
of the State of Hesse, Starzacher (SPD), also speaking on behalf of a
contributing state, believed that the southern states had brought about
their defeat themselves because they had by-passed reality in their
planning: "In view of the dire financial situation I simply lack the
imagination to see how the colleagues of the transfer receiving states can
contribute to a compromise and then return to their state capitals and
explain to their respective parliaments that they had displayed a
state-supportive attitude and carried a compromise and that from next year
there would be less money coming in."
Bavaria's finance minister Huber continues to maintain that all states
would have benefited from the proposed reform. But nobody had really made
the effort to seriously study the different concepts: "The fact that every
proposal has been slammed and rejected by the other states will leave us
with no choice but to put the constitutional compliance of the current
system to the test before the Federal Constitutional Court."
A final attempt will be made during the conference of state premiers next
week to convince a majority of states. That forum, however, is governed by
the principle of unanimity, and - barring any political miracle - the
dispute will eventually end up in Karlsruhe.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-12-9>
<H1>
Savings bank robbed in Emmerich
</H1>
At midday an unidentified man robbed the main branch of the savings bank in
the lower Rhine town of Emmerich. The culprit subsequently fled with his
loot. He had a young child with him. Shortly after 14.00 hrs a man had
entered the main cashier's hall at the Emmerich savings bank, accompanied
by a four to five year old child. He pointed a gun at the child's head and
demanded money. After having been handed 250.000 German Marks the sofar
unidentified man left the bank and together with the child got into a black
Honda CRX car carrying a Dutch number plate. These are the confirmed facts
sofar. The police have no leads at this stage. Obviously there were also
delays in alerting police. It is unknown where the child came from, or if
it was released after the robbery. Due to the delay in alerting the
authorities a pursuit of the culprit also was not possible. Detectives are
currently securing the crime scene with a full-scale search of the wider
area currently being under way. A missing person's report about a child has
sofar not been received.

