<DOC de-news-1999-10-21-1>
<H1>
German government denies changes in pension plan draft
</H1>
A confidential paper worked out in the ministry of labor was leaked to
the daily "Handelsblatt", rekindling the confusion around the
government's pension reform plan. Handelsblatt aired passages
concerning a possible increase of pension adjustments over and
above the provisions in the budget reduction package. In an
immediate denial, minister for labor Riester stated the government's
firm decision not to increase pensions by more than the strict
inflation
rate over the next two years. On the other hand, SPD secretary
general Muentefering confirmed that the matter had been under
discussion, not without stressing that the SPD would stand pat on
the original proposal. What the newspaper reported is part of a
document worked out by lower level officials in Riester's ministry,
Muentefering said, but had not been part of the political high-level
discussion or of the talks between the ministry and the chancellor's
staff.
Employer federation's president Hundt welcomed the clarification
by the government, while Hesse's state premier Roland Koch declared
that the government coalition's pension reform plans had run aground.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-21-2>
<H1>
Economy ministers put shop closing time decision on ice
</H1>
The economy ministers of the federation and of the states postpones a
decision in the matter of commerce closing time. At their fall meeting
in Freising they decided to study the various expert opinions until
late November. This resolution was sponsored by Bavaria and the
states with SPD governments. Saxony and Berlin had both proposed
to virtually revoke existing limitations. Bavaria's economy minister
Wiesheu said expansion of opening times could be talked about,
but in a careful and pragmatic manner. The interests of medium and
small sized establishments must be taken into consideration. And
any steps taken must needs be uniform in all states of the nation,
Wiesheu added, His colleague from Saxony, Schommer, voiced
disappointment. The CDU politician said he'd expected a more
courageous stand.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-21-3>
<H1>
Excitement in telephone communications market
</H1>
The competitors of Deutsche Telekom fear the so-called "call by call"
tariffs are coming to an end, in the view of Telekom's announcement
that they would stop collecting payments for other companies as of
April 2000. To date, users can decide on which company they want
to call through by dialing codes, all collection going via the Telekom
bill. Eva Maria Schreiter, speaking for the VTAM telephone
association, said, "This means that users will have to pay separate
bills. Let's say the user gets a DM 60.00 bill, DM 6 or 8 of which
refer
to "call by call" made through several different operators, they will
have to make a lot of very small payments. No user will submit to
this,
so "call by call" will be done for."

<DOC de-news-1999-10-21-4>
<H1>
LWS committee gets green light
</H1>
The road is clear for setting up a special parliamentary investigation
committee for looking into the LWG scandal. In a unanimous decision,
all factions in Bavaria's state parliament set up the list of items to
be elucidated by the committee. It is aimed at finding out what led to
the high risk real estate operations and the steep losses of the home
and city-building corporation partly owned by the state.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-21-5>
<H1>
Bickering over Bavarian social situation report
</H1>
A year has gone by since the report on the social situation in Bavaria
was published, and still it causes lively infighting between the
state's government and opposition. The report was submitted by
renowned social research institutes, and it concludes that even in the
rich state of Bavaria not everything is pure paradise as far as social
security is concerned, a view decidedly shared by opposition member
in the state parliament, where the social committee had a debate on
the report today. In the opinion of barbara Stamm, the state's social
minister, prosperity and social security are outstanding in Bavaria.
Although In the 600 page report social researchers take a critical
view of increasing poverty in Bavaria, Ms. Stamm says this must all
be seen in relation to the situation in the other states, among which
Bavaria has the lowest jobless rate with a per capita income.above
average.

