<DOC de-news-1998-08-08-1>
<H1>
Retailers satisfied with summer clearance sales
</H1>
The German retail industry has been very satisfied with this year's summer
clearance sales.  About half of all department stores were blessed with
double-digit sales increases.  The clearance sales have now finally
emptied warehouses, after a lot of merchandise did not move in June and
July as a result of poor weather.  As prices took a dive, Germans went on
a two-week shopping spree, pushing sales to new heights.  Sales even
surpassed last year's record figures, leaving retailers highly satisfied.
The last summer clothing items went for fantastic prices.

<P>
Large department store chains benefitted above all from the summer
clearance sales because they made up for part of their losses during the
first half of 1998. Nonetheless, some of them have still suffered a 5%
decrease in total revenue.  New ideas and small tricks seem necessary to
invigorate the market.  Many retail chains would prefer pushing the
beginning of the summer clearance into August, as the warm days of summer
seem to take longer and longer to arrive.  That way, retailers would be
able to sell their merchandise at regular prices through the end of July,
and bargain hunters would have to wait a little longer.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-08-2>
<H1>
Kinkel appeals to Iraq to accept offer of dialogue
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel has renewed his condemnation of Iraq's
interference with the UN disarmament controls.  As Kinkel said in an
interview with the "Berliner Tagesspiegel," the UN would not play
hide-and-seek this time around.  Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, must
realize that he will not succeed in driving a wedge between the members of
the Security Council.  Kinkel emphasized that the Gulf state is in no
position to impose conditions.  But Kinkel added that the dialogue must
not be cut off.  He called on the Iraqi leadership to accept the dialogue
offered by UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and to seek a solution in
cooperation with the Security Council.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-08-3>
<H1>
FC Bayern wins Bundesliga Cup
</H1>
FC Bayern Muenchen has again won the Bundesliga Cup (the German Soccer
League Cup).  The defending champion triumphed over VFB Stuttgart, scoring
4:0 in the final match at Leverkrusen.  FC Bayern, which has set a record
for winning the cup, already had three goals by the end of the first half,
all courtesy of the Brazilian player Giovanne Elber.  Carsten Jancker,
coming in as a substitute, scored the final goal in the 89th minute.

