<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-1>
<H1>
Reform proposals for citizenship laws introduced
</H1>
In Bonn, both the federal government and the opposition submitted plans
for the reform of the citizenship laws and better integration of
foreigners. The draft proposal of the Red-Green coalition would allow dual
citizenship in the future. Interior Minister Schily wants to attach
conditions to the granting of German citizenship such as loyalty to the
principles of the German constitution, lack of a criminal record, and
adequate knowledge of the German language. Additionally applicants would
have to prove their ability to support themselves without social or
unemployment assistance. Schily explained the that the government's
primary purpose is not the introduction of dual citizenship, but rather
intensified efforts toward integration. The CDU/CSU reiterated its
opposition to dual citizenship. Deputy Party Chief Ruettger said the goal
should be a combination of better integration of foreigners currently
residing in Germany with a further restriction on immigration. The CDU
organization in Hesse wants to start the petition campaign against the
federal government's plan, which the party leadership still needs to
approve, on Saturday.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-2>
<H1>
SPD/Green coalition meetings in Berlin
</H1>
Meetings of the federal Red-Green ruling coalition are currently getting
underway in Berlin. Prior to the meeting, the SPD leadership had already
met with Chancellor Schroeder. Parliamentary leader for the party, Peter
Struck, said the controversy with the Green side of the government
coalition regarding the abandonment of nuclear power generation has been
settled. On the basis of that agreement, the amendment will be introduced
into parliament at a future date . This is the case for the environmental
tax reform as well.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-3>
<H1>
Federal student assistance program (BAFoeG) increased
</H1>
The federal cabinet adopted an amendment to the student assistance program
(BAFoeG) that, among other things, increases the educational subsidy by
2%. The Ministry of Education in Bonn announced that this raises the
maximum support payment by about 20 DM to 1030 DM in the western states
and 1020 DM in the eastern states. In addition, the parental income limit
below which students can receive assistance has been raised by 6%.
Studying abroad, and working on student committees will continue to be
supported for up to 2 semesters.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-4>
<H1>
Outcome of EU-Commission no-confidence vote unclear
</H1>
The outcome of the European parliament's planned vote of no confidence
tomorrow against the EU Commission is still uncertain. President Santer of
the EU-Commission threatened resignation, attempting to achieve agreement
between the two bodies. More than 100 delegates of the European People's
Party pledged their support of the Commission in response. Two multi-party
resolutions will be taken up in tomorrow's vote. The Liberals, Christian
Democrats, and Greens are calling for the resignation of the French
EU-Commissioner Cresson. They also want the Commission to look into the
responsibility borne by Cresson's colleague Marin. The Socialists,
Leftists and the Radical European Alliance only want the appointment of an
investigating committee. A formal vote of no confidence can only be taken
against the entire EU-Commission. It requires a two-thirds majority to
pass.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-5>
<H1>
Kohl receives the Netherlands' highest honor
</H1>
Former German chancellor Helmut Kohl was honored today in the Hague,
receiving the Netherlands' highest award. In his speech, Dutch Prime
Minister Kok paid tribute to Kohl as "The Chancellor of Europe,"
recognizing his decisive contributions to economic and monetary union.
Kohl also received praise for his performance in connection with German
reunification. The award is normally only given to foreign dignitaries.
Kohl is the first head of government since British Prime Minister
Churchill to receive this award.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-13-6>
<H1>
Rail extortion attempts continue
</H1>
Extortion threats have been received again by German Rail (Deutsche Bahn).
According to a spokesperson in Frankfurt/Main, the person issuing the
threats is demanding the release of the railway extortionist arrested in
December. A threatening letter to that effect was received in Cologne
around the beginning of the month. No further details were given. German
Rail and federal investigators assume that the culprits in this case are
"copycats". The spokesperson stressed that German Rail has continued to
receive new threats ever since the extortion attempts prior to Christmas.
For this reason, the rail lines will continue to be patrolled from the air
by the Federal Border Police.

