<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-1>
<H1>
Coalition politicians want immediate start for tax reform
</H1>
Politicians of the Bonn coalition from the CDU, CSU and FDP renewed a call for
a quick start of tax reforms. On "Deutschlandradio" FDP chief Gerhardt stressed
that a decisive role would be played by the SPD's position in this matter. He
also said that success in the creation of new jobs would only come with success
in lowering direct taxation to encourage economic growth again. CDU General
Secretary Hinze characterized the tax summit talks scheduled for the end of the
month as meaningful. He said on "Deutschlandradio Berlin" that a concept had
been laid out, and now everyone would wait with interest to see what sorts of
preconceptions the SPD would be taking into the negotiations. The goals of the
Social Democrats, as sketched by the Schleswig-Holstein Prime Minister Simonis
on "Norddeutschen Rundfunk", include the relief of wide income differentials and
the closing of tax loopholes.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-2>
<H1>
Strikes against new Post laws
</H1>
Post offices in many German cities closed this morning early at 10 am. Delivery
of mail this morning by many mailmen was halted. The protest strike was directed
against the revocation of the postal monopoly and the layoff of thousands of
postal workers.
<P>
There have been 70,000 positions at the Post lost since 1989. The Union views up
to 100,000 jobs at "the yellow Post" as in danger, out of a total of 300,000
jobs remaining. This will be the case if the FDP is able to institute its plan
next Tuesday at the Bonn coalition caucus. According to this plan, the monopoly
will be revoked in two years and the Post will only be protected from
competition for letters under 50 grams. Dr. Wolfgang Boetsch showed himself
today to be only partially open to compromise. He said that he did not want to
publicly reveal the limits within which he was willing to negotiate, but that
they were set.
He said he was amenable to negotiation of the weight limit, but not the timetable. He was unwilling to go under a 5 year plan. The Europe-wide developments
were going significantly slower than in the Post's own plan had forecast, he observed. Post Minister Boetsch wants to protect the Post until 2002, from both
operational announcements and expensive pre-retirement regulation. He is unable
to predict the number of remaining jobs either, though.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-3>
<H1>
Attempts at new transition regulations for government members
</H1>
In January the case of the parliamentary state secretary in the federal ministry
of research, Cornelia Iser, caused an uproar. She had accepted a highly-paid
post  in private industry. Along with the post she received a one time payment
of 180,000 marks. Now the government wants to change the transition money regulation.
The Cabinet will take up the theme "transition money" in one of its next sessions. All members of the administration have this money available when they
get a job in the private sector. A speaker for the federal Interior Ministry
confirmed today that a commission was already at work on a new regulation. The
cabinet would decide on it soon. The "Bild-Zeitung" is said to have already
found that the members of the government will only be able to avail themselves
of the transition money if they do not go directly from their government post
to a new position. The money is to be rationed to the new income as well. If
the ex-govenment member is to earn the same amount, or more, the grant could
even be stricken, according to the paper. The news magazine "FOCUS" reports as
well that the regulation could even be applied ex post facto back to the first
of January. The new Bundestag vice president Geiger, who also received
transition money after her resignation. She said that she agreed with the ex
post facto aspect of the legislation, even though it would then affect her. The
CDU politician Iser, whose case cast her into the headlines, also agreed to the
retroactivity of the legislation.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-4>
<H1>
Zwickel predicts five million out of work
</H1>
The leader of the IG Metall, Zwickel, is reckoning with a climb in the
unemployment rate to five million out of work. As the union leader told the
"Bild am Sonntag" he does not believe the work market will not markedly improve
as long as the federal government perseveres with its saving policy to the detriment of employers. Zwickel declared his support for a unified European employment pact again.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-5>
<H1>
Lamers: Scientology dispute does not harm US-German relations
</H1>
The foreign affairs speaker for the CDU/CSU Budestag faction, Lamers, believes
that the dispute over the Scientology sect will not injure US-German relations.
The debate with the sect is in the focus of media interests, not political ones
Lamers said this morning on "Deutschlandradio Berlin". For that reason Scientology will hardly come up in the discussions between Chancellor Kohl and US Secretary of State Albright on Monday. More important issues would be, for example,
NATO eastern expansion or the relationship with Russia.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-6>
<H1>
Meeting between EU and ASEAN members
</H1>
The economic relations between the European Union and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations should be improved. In other aspects the cooperation should
be increased, among which are the fight against terrorism and environmental
damage. The foreign ministers of the EU nations and the ASEAN members came to
these conclusions at their conference in Singapore, which began Thursday and
was continued today.
In addition to the 22 foreign ministers already in Singapore for the meeting for
the past 2 days, the ministers from the three heavyweights in the region--China,
Japan and South Korea today stepped into the fray. Asian-European meetings, also
called ASEM, came to life eleven months ago in Bangkok. The Asian nations have
economic alliances as a main goal. They would limit discussion on political
topics such as human rights, but the European nations are apparently not backing
down.
As host, the Singapore foreign minister and conference leader spoke of an intensive constructive and very open discussions occurring on how one should lead
further political dialogue in the future. Unity was reached on the idea that
political themes should be handled with mutual respect, and that no conference
participant should be attacked in order to score political points in the press
or at home.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-7>
<H1>
Protests against further Castor shipments
</H1>
In the Lower Saxon town of Cernien, near Luechow-Dannenberg,
opponents of atomic power damaged rail installations at protests against further
Castor shipments. Police report that the stretch between Uelzen past Dannenberg
the rails were sawed, trees felled and the gravel railbed carried away. Officers
were pelted often with stones. Nearly one thousand people demonstrated after the
noon hour against the new transport of atomic waste, planned for the beginning
of March to the disposal site in Gorleben.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-15-8>
<H1>
Thoma German champion of the 70 meter hill
</H1>
Olympic team champion Dieter Thoma from Hinterzarten has become
German ski jumping champion of the 70 meter hill for the first time. Thoma won
with the hill record of 90 meters in the first attempt, and 86 in the second
for a total of 239.5 points on the hill in Baiersbronn. Gerd Siegmund from Oberhof took second in front of Hans-Joerg Jeckle from Schonach.

