<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-1>
<H1>
SPD and GAL agree to coalition in Hamburg
</H1>
Six weeks after the elections in Hamburg, the SPD and Green Alternative
Party (GAL) have agreed to build a red-green coalition in the State
parliament. This was announced shortly before midnight on Monday after
twelve hours of negotiations. The SPD has control of nine out of twelve
government departments, with the Green Alternative Party taking the
departments of environment, further education and urban development. The
SPD candidate, 53-year-old Ortwin Runde, has been designated the office of
First Mayor.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-2>
<H1>
Turmoil over increase in pensions contributions
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Helmut Kohl intends to prevent an increase of the
pension contribution rate to 21 percent from 1998. Kohl said at the
Deutsche Bank's SME conference in Frankfurt that such an increase would not
be acceptable, and must be changed sensibly. Concrete measures were not
mentioned. He said there must be an honest discussion of which elements of
the existing pension system can be maintained and which must be changed.
Young people are justifiably worried about pensions, in view of the
changing age pyramid. Labour Minister Norbert Bluem has called the FDP, SPD
and employers to joint talks, saying that everyone has to pull together,
and in the current legislative period. Only by combining recruitment,
refinancing and combating 610-Mark jobs and false self-employment can the
pension system be stabilised. Bluem accused the employers of going back on
an agreement to create more jobs. President of the Employers Federation
Dieter Hundt attacked the Employment Minister in return, claiming that
short-falls in pensions insurance must have been foreseeable. In any case
the announced increase would have to be back-dated. Industry could not
withstand such a measure, and more  jobs would be lost. He accused Bluem of
using false figures all year when talking about developing the
contributions rate; at the beginning of the year there had even been talk
of lowering the pensions contributions. In view of the threatened increase
to the pensions contributions rate there will be renewed discussion within
the governing coalition on an earlier start to the pensions reform. This
would hardly ease the burden on the pensions reserves, however. According
to social experts, the rate would still be at 20.8 or 20.9 percent. For
this reason CDU social expert Julius Louven wants to link the earlier start
that is demanded by the FDP to changes to the 610 Mark jobs. This was the
only way to reducing the contributions rate in the short-term. In contrast,
FDP General Secretary Guido Westerwelle renewed his opposition to cutting
610 Marks jobs. It had been planned that the cabinet would agree on
Thursday to the increase in contributions from 1 January.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-3>
<H1>
Kohl: Industry carries main responsibility for labour market
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Helmut Kohl has allocated the main responsibility for
the labour market to industry. Speaking at the Deutsche Bank's SME
conference in Frankfurt, Kohl called on industrial leaders not to neglect
training for school-leavers. At the same time he warned against the
illusion that the state can create large numbers of jobs, saying that it
was only reasonable to increase the number of positions in the areas of
education and security. The chancellor conceded that politicians are making
slow progress in reducing costs and regulations, which would improve the
framework conditions for industry to undertake investment.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-4>
<H1>
Judgement against Goennenwein overturned
</H1>
The Federal High Court has quashed the conviction of the Baden-Wuerttemberg
theatre manager, Goennenwein. The Karlsruhe judges have ordered the case to
be re-tried at the Stuttgart State Court. Goennenwein had been found guilty
of overspending the theatre budget by DM 2 million in 1990 and ordered to
pay damages of DM 50,000. Both he and the State administration had appealed.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-5>
<H1>
Water consumption in Germany declines
</H1>
Water consumption in Germany keeps declining. The Alliance of the German
Gas and Water Industry reported that consumption has decreased by just
above 12 percent from 1990 to 1996. This was due to the use of water-saving
appliances and in general a more efficient use of water. Along with Belgium
Germany has the lowest water consumption in Europe. Households and small
businesses are the largest group of customers for the public water
utilities. In households, most of the water is used for hygiene.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-6>
<H1>
Fusion of Thyssen and Krupp/Hoesch
</H1>
Industrial groups Thyssen and Krupp/Hoesch want to merge. The chairmen of
the executive board of and the supervisory board of both groups announced
today that they are going to suggest the merger to the owners. The fusion
will create a company with DM 65 billion turnover and 190,000 employees.
The new company will be among the ten largest in Germany. The fusion is
expected to create synergistic effects of at least DM450 million. On 1
September, Krupp and Thyssen had merged their steel sectors after the
take-over of Thyssen by Krupp had failed in March.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-7>
<H1>
New Volkswagen Golf may have engine troubles
</H1>
Volkswagen, too, seems to have technical problems with a new model, the
five-cylinder Golf (Rabbit), after Mercedes-Benz had trouble with its
A-range automobiles. The Volkswagen headquarters in Wolfsburg stated that a
misfire in the new Golf's engine destroyed the air filter and damaged the
throttle valve during a test drive in Great Britain. VW, however, stressed
that the Golf had remained in running condition and no accident occurred.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-04-8>
<H1>
Contract signed to aid solar panel factories
</H1>
The federal government, Bavaria, and North Rhine-Westphalia have signed an
agreement today in Bonn that is supposed to make Germany the world leader
in solar technology. The agreement provides that a large solar panel
factory will be built in Gelsenkirchen. An existing factory in Alzenau,
Bavaria will be considerably expanded with financial support from the
governments.

