<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-1>
<H1>
Radical Islamic organization admits to attack on tourist bus
</H1>
A radical Islamic organization based in the United Kingdom has
blamed the Egyptian government for the attack on a tourist bus in
Cairo. The so-called Islamic Monitoring Center warned tourists to
stay away from Egypt as long as the governing regime didn't
discontinue its policy of violence against the country's
population. Ten people, amongst them at least seven Germans, were
killed during the attack which took place near the Egyptian Museum
in the center of Cairo. Three assailants were arrested after a
shoot-out with police. According to the Egyptian Ministry of the
Interior one of the arrested is mentally retarded and had been
involved in a previous attack on tourists. The German vacationers
were from Saxony-Anhalt. Their names have not yet been released.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-2>
<H1>
Top level French-German talks in Weimar
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl and French President Chirac have met for top-level
talks in Weimar. The meeting marks the 70th occasion of
consultations of this kind between French and German officials.
After the initial reception, hosts and guests, which included
French Prime Minister Jospin and six ministers from both sides,
went on a walking tour of the city's historic district and also
visited the Goethe House. There was sporadic booing and jeering
from a crowd of more than 1000 bystanders. Talks center mainly on
European currency issues as well as the expansion and reform of
the European Union. The German and French governments also want to
coordinate their approach to the European summit on employment in
November in Luxembourg. Also on the agenda in Weimar are issues of
cultural cooperation and joint armament projects.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-3>
<H1>
Latest attempt at resolving conflict on taxation unsuccessful
</H1>
The governing Coalition and the opposition have held another round
of talks in Bonn aimed at finding a last-minute resolution to the
ongoing conflict over the tax reform. Representatives of both
sides explored chances of a compromise during sessions of the
standing committee of arbitration between the Upper and Lower
Houses of the German Federal Parliament. During the last couple of
days, both CDU and FDP, as well as the SPD, had indicated their
willingness to compromise whilst reiterating their previous
positions. Therefore, coalition plans for a comprehensive tax
reform agenda are given only little chance of success. A limited
solution along the lines of a reduction of fringe wage costs
coupled with a simultaneous increase in the value-added tax is
considered unlikely. Without achieving any results negotiations
were adjourned to next Thursday.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-4>
<H1>
Helicopter crash probably an accident
</H1>
The United Nations (UN) helicopter that crashed yesterday in
Bosnia-Herzegovina smashed into a mountain after straying into
banks of fog. This preliminary result of investigations was
released in Sarajevo. Speculation that the helicopter had come
under fire could not be confirmed. Twelve occupants of the illfated aircraft were killed in the accident, amongst them five
Germans, five US-Americans, one Briton and one Polish national.
Amongst the German crash victims was Gerd Wagner, deputy UN
commissioner for Bosnia, as well as Thomas Reinhard, a senior
official with the German Department of Foreign Affairs, who had
commenced duty in Sarajevo only this week. The Ukrainian crew of
four survived.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-5>
<H1>
Aircraft crash strains relations with Namibia
</H1>
The crash of a German air force Tupolev aircraft in the South
Atlantic threatens to strain relations between Germany and Namibia.
Yesterday, the Namibian government in Windhoek again denied having
received a detailed flight plan from the German air force. Furthermore,
Namibia added that it was not prepared to be made the scapegoat for the
accident. The German Ministry of Defense, however, reiterated in Bonn
that officials in Namibia had in fact been informed of the aircraft's
intention to touch down in Windhoek. Meanwhile, search teams off
the Namibian coastline yesterday recovered the largest chunk of
wreckage found so far, although it remains unclear to which of the
two aircraft that allegedly collided it belongs.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-6>
<H1>
Zwickel welcomes economic policy draft released by SPD board
</H1>
The chair of the union for metal, electronics, and engineering,
Mr. Zwickel, welcomed a key draft on economic policy that the SPD
executive board will put forward at the party's next federal
conference. He explained that the draft stood for innovation,
reform and optimism about the future. Mr. Zwickel called upon the
SPD to give the unions an active part in developing the party's
economic program. Particularly a policy for more employment would
be essential, said Mr. Zwickel. The SPD executive board holds that
salaries ought not to be taxable, and that the government should
subsidize low incomes.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-7>
<H1>
Hartmann criticizes US rejection of anti-land mines treaty
</H1>
The head of the German delegation to the Oslo Anti-Land mines
Conference, Mr. Hartmann, has criticized the rejectionist position
adopted by the US towards the negotiated treaty. In an interview
with "Deutschlandradio Berlin," Mr. Hartmann said that the US
stance constituted a handicap with regard to the future inclusion
of other countries, especially that of major land mine
manufacturers China and Russia. No one anticipates that the United
States will ratify the treaty in the near future, said Mr.
Hartmann. 88 countries present in Oslo agreed to the draft
agreement on a worldwide ban on anti-personnel land mines. US
President Clinton justified his rejection of the treaty by
pointing to the agreement's non-inclusion of any exemption
clauses. He added that his government would now seek to reach an
agreement within the framework of the UN Disarmament Conference in
Geneva.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-8>
<H1>
Protection against dismissal of part-time public servants
</H1>
Part-time employees within the public sector are to receive
improved protection against unlawful dismissal. A ruling by the
German Federal Labor Court in Kassel states that long-term
employees who work less than half the regular weekly hours, are
irremovable. A clause in the public service's industrial award
agreement, stipulating at least half-time employment as a
prerequisite for irremovability, was unconstitutional, the judges
said.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-9>
<H1>
Von Weizsaecker granted continued suspension of CDU membership
</H1>
Former German President Richard von Weizsaecker will continue to
have suspended CDU party membership. This is the outcome of a
discussion between Mr. von Weizsaecker and CDU General Secretary
Hintze. Mr. von Weizsaecker had indicated during the conversation
that he continued to consider the CDU his party. The former
Federal President is thereby relieved of all rights and
obligations associated with party membership and is also not
required to contribute membership fees.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-18-10>
<H1>
Roofing ceremony on Reichstag building
</H1>
The roofing ceremony on the Reichstag building was celebrated in
Berlin today. Alterations and renovations are to be completed by
the end of next year. The new seat of parliament will be
commissioned to the Bundestag as the first building within the new
government quarter in 1999. Construction and renovation costs are
estimated at 600 million German Marks.

