<DOC de-news-1998-10-30-1>
<H1>
Widespread flooding in Germany
</H1>
In some regions things are already looking up a bit, but more rain is
predicted for the next few days.

<P>
This morning Civil Defence decided that the districts of Miltenberg
in Lower Franconia and Cham in the Upper Palatinate no longer were
disaster areas. Cham had been surrounded by a huge floodwater lake,
Roding was in danger of getting hit by a large flood-wave and
Miltenberg's (historic) town-centre still had to be protected by
sandbags. All river-levels, however, were stable or sinking - except
for Danube and Main. The situation was critical in Northern Suebia,
where the river Woernitz had flooded parts of the town of Harburg.
There emergency services built walkways so inhabitants could reach
their flooded homes. Flooding is still predicted for the town of
Woerth, near Miltenberg, on the lower Main river, as well as in the
Bamberg district in Upper Franconia. In Lower Bavaria, Kleine and
Grosse Filz, near Landshut, and the Abens, near Kelheim, have flooded
large areas of farmland. The slip near Painten, however, has been
fixed meanwhile. Several district roads in the western part of
Lower Bavaria will stay closed for the time being. Once burnt twice
shy: Emergency Services will stay on alert, as there are predictions
for more copious rainfall on Saturday night, plus gusty winds.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-30-2>
<H1>
Ms Anette Schavan to become Mr Schaeuble's deputy
</H1>
After they lost the federal election, there was much talk within the
CDU party about renewal, and about the so-called "Young Turks" who
were meant to add new drive to the party. When the jobs came up, it
was mainly the old rank-and-file lining up for them. Now two birds
were killed with one stone: Mr Schaeuble's strategy has worked, he
got what he wanted, viz. Ms Anette Schavan, currently state education
minister for Baden-Wuerttemberg, will join the federal management of
the CDU, and become one of his four deputies. Today Ms Schavan told
radio SUEDWESTFUNK: "I will run". Not only Ms Rita Suessmuth but also
Mr Fritz Teufel had urged here to have a go, so that's what she was
going to do. Yesterday Mr Teufel had flagged it away, just like Ms
Suessmuth had done before.

<P>
43-year old Ms Schavan has political talent and she will also fit the
Young Turks' bill. Mr Schaeuble had previously been keen to have Ms
Schavan become his deputy, and has got a lot closer to that after
Mr Teufel decided not to run.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-30-3>
<H1>
Compromise for open-cast mine Garzweiler 2
</H1>
The contentious open-cast lignite mine Garzweiler 2 now finally
managed to get over the last hurdle - 11 years after resource consent
procedures had started. SPD, Greens and Rheinbraun, the company
running the mine, burnt midnight oil hammering out a deal acceptable
to all parties. North-Rhine/Westphalia's state premier Wolfgang
Clement, SPD, and environment minister Baerbel Hoehn, Greens, reached
a compromise in the early hours of the morning. Rheinbraun had to
bite the bullet and agree to some conditions, but Ms Hoehn also had
swallow major amendments to her original plan. Of course she put
on a brave face when meeting the press at noon, and blew her own
trumpet stating: "I can tell you that the last two days saw no
substantial change to the draft of the resource consent. I've managed
to keep things I'd thought to be essential in the draft - without any
if's or but's."

<P>
The nitty-gritty:
The resource consent will be valid until 2023 (instead of 2017), which is
not unusual for water-rights. The clause forcing Rheinbraun to prove
that their mining did not damage the natural reserve nearby, got the
chop. The existing document already contained a clause enabling the
authorities to revoke the consent, under certain circumstances.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-30-4>
<H1>
Lower threshold for compulsory social security contributions
</H1>
According to the newspaper SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG, government wants to
lower the threshold for exemptions from social security contributions to
300 marks/month.

<P>
If you earn more than that, your employer will have to pay all the
social security contributions whereas you, the employee, will only
pay contributions to the compulsory pension fund. So far the
threshold is 620 marks/month in former West and 520 marks/month in
former East Germany. The new scheme is to become law as of 1 January
1999. The Labour Ministry said that this model made sense, and would
be discussed amongst other alternatives

<DOC de-news-1998-10-30-5>
<H1>
Mr Schlauch criticises Mr Schroeder
</H1>
Mr Schlauch, spokesperson for the federal parliamentary group of the
Greens, criticised chancellor Schroeder's announcement that
preferential tax for farmers and special conditions for
staff-purchases of cars would need a re-think. Mr Schlauch told the
newspaper SAARBRUECKER ZEITUNG that the SPD must not unilaterally
undo the knot they had tied when signing the coalition agreement.
Mr Schroeder's statement gave the impression he wanted to do some
lobby-groups a favour. Yesterday the chancellor had said that taxing
the discount companies granted staff who bought cars (and later
on-sold them), usually after a year, might not go ahead.  And some
farmers could be off the hook as well.

