<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-1>
<H1>
SPD state premiers - tax reform agreement possible this year
</H1>
According to several SPD state premiers, it should be possible to
reach an agreement on the planned tax reforms by the end of this year.
Gerhard Schroeder (SPD), the state premier for Lower Saxony, said that it
was not too late for tax reforms. Independent of party, the important
factors for the state premiers to discuss in the Bundesrat (upper house of
parliament) and conferring committees would be how much strain could be
placed on the budgets. The SPD leader of the Rheinland Palatinate, Kurt
Beck, and the mayor of Hamburg, Henning Voscherau, were also optimistic
that a compromise could be reached.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-2>
<H1>
Lafontaine: SPD will not make tax reform concessions
</H1>
Oskar Lafontaine, the national leader of the SPD, has reiterated that the
Social Democrats will not make concessions to the ruling governing
coalition regarding tax reforms. Mr. Lafontaine stressed in a letter to SPD
officials that the SPD were against an increase in value added tax to
compensate for tax cuts for top earners. He also said that the SPD would
not support increasing mineral oil tax or value added tax to counterbalance
the Kohl government's budget deficits. Furthermore he said that Chancellor
Kohl knows full well that his promised tax cuts are not affordable, and
that the coalition's proposals would not decrease unemployment by the next
election. These were the reasons why the Chancellor had deliberately
brought an end to the tax reform talks with the SPD.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-3>
<H1>
Second day of Greens party conference in Magdeburg
</H1>
Today was the second day of the party conference of top members
of the Buendnis 90/the Greens. The 1998 election campaign was on the
agenda, in order that delegates could establish the key criteria for the
election. Another item for consideration by the participants of this
conference (comprising top members of various party committees) was a
motion against genetically altered food. The conference approved the tax
reform draft of the Greens' Bundestag parliamentary faction. The Greens
propose a redistribution of a 100 billion marks in favour of middle and
lower income groups. They also proposed that supplementary pay for working
nights and public holidays should be taxed after a transitionary period.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-4>
<H1>
Jagoda comments on constraining joblessness
</H1>
Jagoda, the president of the Federal Labour Office, has said that
further cuts in weekly working hours could be an instrument in constraining
growing joblessness. He said to the Deutschlandfunk radio station that this
would not solve the problem for all, but that a reduction in working hours
could alleviate the situation. The head of the Federal Labour Office in
Nuremberg also called for speedy decisions to be made regarding tax
reforms, adding that stalemates lasting months did not lead to any positive
impulses. Mr. Jagoda also said that he is of the opinion that the job
market would pick up as soon as this year, however the yearly unemployment
average would still be over 4 million. He also contradicted the prevailing
negative opinion of Germany's status as a location for industry. Mr. Jagoda
said that the German people were willing to work hard, interest rates were
low and that the currency was stable. It was no new development that
workers were paid comparatively high wages when compared internationally.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-5>
<H1>
Schulte warns against political stagnation in Germany
</H1>
Dieter Schulte, the president of the German Trade Union Federation (DGB)
has warned against political stagnation in Germany. He said in an interview
with the German press agency that the failed tax reform talks between the
government and the Social Democrats were proof of the political
shortcomings. The main political parties had passed up their chance to show
their ability for reform partywide. Mr. Schulte warned against the
long-term political consequences of this. When there is an unemployment
rate of practically five million, he said, one cannot allow oneself to fall
into a political vacuum until the national elections in 1998. This would be
a catastrophe. Furthermore, Mr. Schulte said that with goodwill on both
sides it should have been possible to lower indirect wage costs in the near
future. Compromises were possible in practically all points of conflict.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-6>
<H1>
DAG warns against breakdown of social order in Federal Republic
</H1>
The German Union of Employees (DAG) has warned against a breakdown of
social order in the Federal Republic. This would put political stability at
stake, according to the Union's May Appeal published today. Germany must
not allow itself to be relegated socially to the status of a developing
country. The fight against unemployment will only succeed, if the
government, employers and union leaders assign utmost priority to this
goal. Within this context, the DAG has called for further cuts in working
hours in order to be able to create new jobs. Should this proposal be
accepted, they would not insist on full compensation of the difference in
pay.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-7>
<H1>
Piecick to remain chairman of Schleswig-Holstein SPD
</H1>
The European member of parliament, Willi Piecick, is to remain chairman of
the SPD in Schleswig-Holstein.  In Husum this morning [Sunday], 47-year-old
Mr. Piecick was elected for a further two years . He received 74.1% of the
delegates' votes, almost the same result as two years ago. Mr. Piecick has
been the leader of the SPD in Schleswig-Holstein since
1991.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-8>
<H1>
Seehofer: less TV advertising of alcoholic drinks
</H1>
 The Federal Minister for Health, Horst Seehofer, wants fewer
advertisements for alcoholic drinks to be shown during sport programmes on
television. In an interview he said that in view of the two and a half
million alcoholics in Germany he considered that the present number of
alcohol-related advertisements, particularly during sports broadcasts, was
irresponsible. Moreover, it gave the definite impression that sport and
alcohol belong together. Mr. Seehofer hopes to persuade the directors of
both public and private television stations to introduce voluntary
restrictions at certain times of the day and during certain programmes. Mr.
Seehofer said that he was not seeking an outright ban on the advertising of
alcohol; it was rather the scale of the advertisements which concerned him.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-9>
<H1>
Herzog's statement on 60th anniversary of Guernica bombing
</H1>
This weekend the small Basque town of Guernica remembered the bombing by
German fighters sixty years ago. In a statement read out at the
commemoration ceremony on Saturday morning, President Herzog addressed the
descendants of the victims. He said "I want to take full responsibility for
the past and expressly acknowledge the blame of the German aircraft
involved." On April 26th 1937 the German Condor legion bombed Guernica,
destroying three-quarters of the town. Up to 1700 people were killed. The
air strike against the strategically unimportant town served to demonstrate
the Nazi's support for the future dictator, General Franco, and also tested
the strength of the Luftwaffe.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-10>
<H1>
German double victory in Imola grand prix
</H1>
Heinz-Harald Frentzen from Moenchengladbach has won the San Marino grand
prix in Imola. Michael Schumacher came second, ahead of his Ferrari
team-mate Eddie Irvine. The third German, Ralf Schumacher, retired with
mechanical problems. This meant that for the first time in the history
ofFormula I there was a double victory for the Germans. Frentzen is the
fourth German ever to win a grand prix.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-27-11>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
A trough of low pressure situated over the Atlantic is feeding mild cloudy
air over most of Germany. Only areas north-east of the Elbe will remain
under high pressure influence today [Sunday]. The forecast for today:
north-west of the Elbe: sunny spells, mostly dry, temperatures 17-20
degrees Celsius. The rest of Germany: overcast with showers and storms,
highs between 12 and 19 degrees. During the night showers will ease off and
temperatures will fall to a low of between 5 and 10 degrees. Tomorrow: in
the north-east sunny intervals, with the outside chance of a shower.
Elsewhere, continuing overcast with rain, particularly in the west in the
afternoon. Daytime temperatures ranging from 13 to 21 degrees. Extended
forecast: Tuesday - cloudy with occasional rain. Temporary improvement on
Wednesday. Continuing mild.

