<DOC de-news-1999-06-01-1>
<H1>
102nd annual meeting of German medical association opened
</H1>
Federal health minister Ms. Fischer apologized for
her recent pronouncements that led to escalation of discontent
among physicians. In the inaugural meeting of the 102nd annual
meeting of the German medical association, Fischer said she
was willing to talk thins over and assured physicians that
their opinions were to have considerable weight in working out
Bonn's remodeling plans for the area. Her apology came forth
in response to demands made by Dr. Vilmar, the association's
chairman, who had taken offence with accusations levelled by
Fischer to the extent that physicians were prescribing
unnecessary pharmaceuticals on purpose, in order to provoke
ballooning costs.
In his openung speech, Vilmar repeated his controversial
contention that the planned "Health Reform 2000" would
establish a "socially bearable early demise quota", as an
underbudgeted health system would lead to excluding certain
age and illness groups. The red/green plan would lead to
the collapse of an efficient system of international renown,
said Vilmar. He will not stand for re-election after 21 years
in office.
Before the meeting, the social security entities AOK and VdK
had warned affiliated doctors against misng patients in order
to strengthen their political arguments. Their threatened
action of refusing to prescribe pharmaceuticals or to treat
patients was plainly illegal.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-01-2>
<H1>
Kosovo war: guarded optimism
</H1>
Russian special envoy Chernomyrdin, Finlands premier
Athissaari and US assistant secretary of state Talbert met
at Bonn's Petersberg this afternoon in order to prepare a
new round of negotiations with Yugoslav premier Milosevic.
Czernomyrdin and Athissaari will travel to Belgrade tomorrow.
Meanwhile, the minstry of exterior confimred having received
a letter from the Yugoslav government to foreign minister
Fischer about acceptance of the G8 peace plan. Both Fischer
and chancellor Schroeder voiced cautious optimism. The task
of ending the war was entering a decisive phase. Fischer
said the letter was an important sign, but still was rather
generalized in tis tenor. There was no actual agreement
to a "sturdy international peace force for Kosovo".

<DOC de-news-1999-06-01-3>
<H1>
Bonn demands import ban for Belgian chicken products
</H1>
In answer to the Belgian dioxine scandal,
the federal government plans to lower a EU-wide ban against
export of Belgian chicken meat and eggs. Germany would, if
need be, lower the ban on her own, said agriculture
minister Funke. Belgium's ministry of health meanwhile
extended the ban on wholesale distribution to egg-containing
products such as noodles, desserts, ice-cream and mayonnaise.
Poducers who have been found unaffected will be allowed to
sell shortly. Investigations ar under way to find out
whether swine were also fed dioxine infected food from
Belgium. Government investigators found eggs and chicken
legs form Belgium on the Baden-Wuerttemberg market. All these
products had been voluntarily pulled off the market by
retailers, according to the ministry of agriculture. Food
specimens are now being tested for exposure to dioxine.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-01-4>
<H1>
Pilot wage agreement in chemical sector
</H1>
The third round of wage talks in the North Rhine pilot region
has led to an agreement. Employers and unions agreed on
a flat pay raise of 3% as of June 1st. The agreement is for
13 months and can be denounced by either party until
May 31st, 1999. Apprentice payment will also rise by 3%.
Noth RHine is this year's pilot region for the entire
West German chemical industry which employs 590,000.
Employers and unions presume that the agreement will be
accepted by the remaining regions.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-01-5>
<H1>
Deutsche Bank, Bankers' Trust merger accomplished
</H1>
The merger between Deutsche Bank and the US
investment corporation Bankers' Trust is accomplished.
A spokesman for Deutsche Bank announced that Canadian
and New Jersey authorities have given their OK. The
merger can thus go into effect next Friday. The merger,
which results in the world's first-ranking bank, had
led to a great deal of contoversies. Negotiations around
indemnity for Jewish holocaust victims had delayed the
merger that had been announced 6 months ago.

