<DOC de-news-1998-08-19-1>
<H1>
Schroeder and Stollman appear together for the first time
</H1>
The SPD candidate for Chancellor and his chosen candidate for Finance
Minister, Gerhard Schroeder and Jost Stollmann, appeared together in
public for the first time today at a press conference in Berlin.
Stollmann used the occasion to present his ideas for a fundamental
modernisation of the German economy. In the afternoon, Schroeder and
Stollman invited a group of young businessmen and women to meet and
question them. The presence of Jost Stollman at the start of intensive
campaigning for the coming Bundestag elections provokes both
enthusiasm and scepticism from within the ranks of the SPD - the
mining industry is worried whether he will continue its state subsidy
and the party's left-wing is apprehensive about his policies on social
security. Given this, Stollman had to work hard to convince doubters
that his policies are right. He said "the train has got to get moving
and gather some speed - we have to get away from the kind of policies
which slow us down to a halt and stop our country from getting
anywhere." The media descended on the conference in droves; no TV
station wanted to miss the chance to see Stollman and Schroeder
speaking together for the first time. Stollman did not bring any
surprises with him, however - "I want to bring in the best people from
Germany and abroad to help us strike out in new ways, with new ideas,
through the jungle of ignorance that we are faced with in this
complex, new world. Of course, I have great respect for the
administrative competence of the governmental ministries in Bonn, but
I think that we still need a injection of innovation from outside so
that we can get things going." The SPD also brought a cultural aspect
to its campaigning today, releasing a letter calling for support for
the party which has been signed by 150 intellectuals and artists.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-19-2>
<H1>
Numbers receiving social security increase
</H1>
There has been an increase in the numbers of people in Germany who are
dependent on income support (a type of social security payment).
According to the latest figures released by the Federal Statistics
Office, at the end of last year three million people needed this kind
of financial support (this number does not include those on
unemployment benefit). This represents an increase of seven percent
compared with 1996. It is in the new federal states in the east that
the number receiving income support has increased the most, by 24
percent; in the west the increase was 5 percent. In total, 3.6 percent
of the German population are reliant on continuous income support and
the majority of these are women, who account for 56 percent of the
total; men make up the other 44 percent. In Germany, income support is
paid to people who cannot earn a living themselves and whose next of
kin cannot support them. The state benefit is intended to enable
recipients to lead a decent life. Last year, around DM 44 billion was
spent on income support. This is made up of around DM 20 billion which
was paid to normal recipients and over DM 24 billion which was paid as
a benefit to those with special needs, such as people who are severely
disabled and could not otherwise pay for a place in a care home.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-19-3>
<H1>
Gas explosion in Berlin caused by removal of part of mains system
</H1>
The gas explosion at the beginning of the month in a block of flats in
Berlin which killed seven people is thought to have been caused by
someone tinkering with the gas mains system. The investigators suspect
that a 13 year old boy, who died in the accident, was responsible.
Hans-Ulrich Voss, the chief of the state criminal police and the
leader of the investigation has confirmed that a small iron cap was
missing from the inspection nozzle of the gas piping. Someone must
have removed this cap, which looks like a large screw, from the piping
around half an hour before the explosion. The cap has not yet been
found, however, only a piece of the pipe which it came from has been
discovered. The mixture of air and gas which escaped was ignited when
the lighting in the cellar was turned on and this caused the
explosion. Police Chief Voss said that the suspicion that 13 year old
Sven Torno was responsible could not be dispelled. No-one who lived in
the house who was thought likely to commit suicide, and, besides this,
the gas mixture which escaped from the pipes had only been found in
Sven's lungs. The police also pointed out that Sven was known as a
practical joker and this might have led him to remove the cap. The
police also let it be known that this statement is only an interim
report.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-19-4>
<H1>
Decision expected in labour dispute
</H1>
A preliminary decision is expected today concerning possible all-out
strike action in the Bavarian dairy industry. The chief bargaining
committee of the trade union 'Nahrung, Genuss, Gaststaetten' (Food,
Consumption and Restaurants) met today to discuss the result of a
strike ballot. The effects of a strike would reach the consumer - a
union press officer said that shops would run out of fresh products,
such as yoghurt, butter and milk. In the meantime, the union called
for dairy workers in Winzbach in Lower Franconia to walk out
temporarily. The union is calling for a 6 percent pay increase whilst
employers are offering only 2.3 percent which is in line with a
recommendation from the conciliator.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-19-5>
<H1>
Farewell to Kulenkampf
</H1>
The recently deceased TV quizmaster Hans-Joachim Kulenkampf was buried
yesterday in Frauenstein in upper Austria. Only seven or eight members
of his closest family were present at the ceremony. Kulenkampf's widow
has a house in Frauenstein and there is also a family grave there. The
77 year old presenter died last Friday after a long battle with
cancer.

