<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-1>
<H1>
Federal Government Reacts with Indignation at Execution of LaGrand
</H1>
All pleas and protests were of no use. Walter LaGrand, the convicted murderer
sentenced to death in the United States, was executed early this morning in
Arizona's gas chamber. The particularly gruesome method of execution and the
insufficient legal assistance for the German evoked the indignation of the
Federal Government. All appeals for clemency and requests for at least a stay
of execution were denied first by the governor of Arizona, Jane Hull, and
later by the courts. The final denial came when the US Supreme Court in
Washington rejected a motion filed by the Federal Republic that the execution
was in violation of international law after the World Court in The Hague had
called on the US to postpone the execution. LaGrand was executed in the gas
chamber about five hours after the time originally set.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-2>
<H1>
Military Prepares for Possible Deployment in Kosovo
</H1>
The Bundeswehr has one more week. After that, the first contingent is supposed
to be ready to deploy to support the NATO Peace Keeping troops. Just what it
is supposed to look like is as yet unclear. Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping
hopes that the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army and Yugoslavia can still come to a
peaceful agreement. However, the Minister is not terribly optimistic. He fears
an increasingly difficult situation for the OSCE observers and the NATO troops
stationed in the region. According to Scharping, the willingness to use force
is increasing again in Kosovo, and a direct threat to the NATO troops
stationed in Macedonia and Bosnia cannot be excluded. "The risks are enormous
and they are growing." Scharping sees promising signs for signing a peace
agreement on the part of the Kosovo Albanians; however, the Serbians were
intensifying the presence of their troops in Kosovo and were trying to elude
NATO aerial observation. "The objective of preventing mountains of corpses as
well as new throngs of refugees can only be achieved if the Serbian side is
willing to sign an agreement." By 12 March, the end of next week, the first
portion of the Bundeswehr contingent equipped with heavy battle tanks is
supposed to arrive in Macedonia to reinforce the soldiers already stationed
there.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-3>
<H1>
Agriculture Ministers Meet in Brussels
</H1>
The Agriculture Ministers of the European Union met in Brussels today for
another discussion of Agenda 2000. The discussions were adjourned last Friday
without achieving a result. Federal Agriculture Minister Karl-Heinz Funke also
met with his French colleague; the two countries are arguing over the
redistribution of agriculture expenditures.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-4>
<H1>
Bundestag Passes Tax Reform and "Casual Job" Regulation
</H1>
The Bundestag passed a three-stage tax reform against the protests of the
opposition and the business community. The reform provides for the rescinding
of tax breaks and subsidies amounting to about 20 billion DM for employees and
businesses. Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine spoke of a course correction
away from benefiting large companies and in favor of families and employees.
The opposition and the business community countered that the reform would put
a burden on businesses and would eliminate jobs. The Bundestag subsequently
debated "casual jobs." The Government's bill was passed, according to which
employers must pay an amount equal to 22 percent of the salary of employees
making up to 630 DM per month toward the employees' retirement and health
insurance benefits. Previously, employers did not have make contributions for
these employees.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-5>
<H1>
Grundremmingen Wants to Resume Sending Castor Shipments
</H1>
Castors with nuclear waste are supposed to be rolling out of the Swabian
nuclear power plant Grundremmingen again soon. Three shipments to the shortterm storage facility Gorleben are planned for the first half of this year
alone. Director Gerd von Weihe defended the plan, saying that in the meantime
energy producers had developed the necessary safety standards. It does not
bother the manager that the Environment Ministry banned such nuclear waste
shipments in May 1998; he is of the opinion that the 10-point plan that was
required to eliminate radioactive contamination on the containers has been
largely fulfilled. The Environment Ministry is puzzled by the plans announced
in Swabia and referred to a working group whose experts still have to
determine the route for future castor shipments. A ministry spokesperson said
that an exception, such as in Bavaria, is not possible in this case.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-04-6>
<H1>
Musical Company Cuts a Thousand Jobs
</H1>
Germany's largest musical company, Stella AG, plans to cut 1,000 jobs.
Chairman of the Board, Hejmo Klein, said the cuts were due to the strained
financial situation. According to Klein, a deficit of 95 million DM from last
fiscal year would have to be made up. At the same time, Klein announced that
the facilities in Duisburg and Essen would be closed at the end of the year.
In the future, Stella AG wants to concentrate more on locations that are
financially successful.

