<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-1>
<H1>
Herzog asks employers to take social responsibility
</H1>
German President Herzog has asked employers to share in the social
responsibility of fighting unemployment. In Herzog's opinion, companies'
profits should be invested to create jobs or at least secure endangered
jobs. In an interview with the TV station "ZDF", Herzog said, entrepreneurs
and unions should proceed decisively and come to shared solutions. The
President of the Federal Labor Office Jagoda had advocated moderation in
collective bargaining in 1997 to avoid a further increase in the
unemployment rate. Jagoda also demanded that employers reduce overtime.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-2>
<H1>
Epiphany convention of Liberal Party in Stuttgart
</H1>
In Baden-Wuerttemberg's capital the Epiphany Convention of the
Liberal Democratic Party started today. The Chairman of the State Board of
Directors Doering was reelected by a wide margin. He received almost 93
percent of the votes. In his opening speech of the one-day convention,
Doering encouraged the FDP to remain firm in its demand to end the
solidarity surtax, rejecting criticism from the Christian Social Union.
Also, Doering advocated a trial of controlled heroin distribution to the
most addicted. The other 27 board members were also up for reelection. On
the agenda of the convention was a reform of the party structure, as well
as a proposition by the State Party Board to transform the Bundeswehr into
a volunteer army. Other motions concerned drug and university policy.
Tomorrow is the traditional Epiphany meeting of the Liberals at the
Stuttgart State Opera. At the public rally, German Foreign Minister Kinkel,
Party Leader Gerhardt and General Secretary Westerwelle will give speeches.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-3>
<H1>
CSU insists on Grand Bugging Attack
</H1>
The Christian Social Union insists that together with the Grand
Bugging Attack, the possibility of video surveillance of apartments should
be created. This demand, so far strictly rejected by Bonn coalition partner
FDP, is part of a 12 point paper about interior and legal policy. According
to the news agency "dpa", the catalogue will be discussed in the private
meeting on Wednesday in Wildbad Kreuth. The paper also demands complete
surveillance possibilities for all private telecommunication networks. CSU
interior politicians Norbert Geis and Wolfgang Zeitelmann as authors of the
paper also advocate to introduce on the federal level so-called veil
searches. In Bavaria, these suspicion independent checks on roads have
proven useful in the apprehension of people who aid the entry of illegal
immigrants and illegally immigrated foreigners.
<P>
Besides legal policy, the situation on the job market will be addressed in
Kreuth. The President of the CSU state fraction Glueck advocated today a
alliance for the weak. Employers, unions and politics have to make sure
that the quick change does not lead to a bigger division in society -- a
division between the winners and the losers of modernization, between
employed and unemployed.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-4>
<H1>
German federation of unions about planned grand tax reform
</H1>
In the discussion about tax reform, the German federation of unions
has categorically excluded taxes on bonuses for work on night, Sunday and
holiday shifts. A cancellation of the mileage allowance is not a suitable
means to finance the tax rate for big earners, either, DGB Chairman Schulte
said in a newspaper interview. The tax reform has to end the shifting of
burdens for the benefit of the rich. The federation of unions is willing to
discuss higher excise taxes if the contributions to mandatory insurances
will be lowered. Schulte said, talks about a "Coalition for Work" would
resume only if concrete measures for job creation are agreed upon.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-5>
<H1>
Reception of Bosnian refugees in Germany acknowledged
</H1>
The Chair of the Bonn representation of the Refugee Commission of the
United Nations has acknowledged the reception of more than 300,000 Bosnian
refugees in Germany as a big achievement. She told the radio station
"Deutschlandfunk" that the refugees did not only receive shelter and
medical aid, but they were welcome by the people. Their return should be
accompanied and supported in the same manner. Everything has to be done to
forward a voluntary return of the Bosnian refugees. Deportation should not
be considered.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-6>
<H1>
Kinkel demands recognition of election victory of Serbian opposition
</H1>
German Foreign Minister Kinkel demanded that Serbian President
Milosevic acknowledge the victory of the opposition in the local elections
in November immediately and completely. Otherwise the way back into the
community of the other European states will remain blocked for Serbia. But
Kinkel stressed that Serbia has to regain its place within Europe. Germany
is willing to help the country under democratic conditions. The Serbian
government had partly yielded to international pressure on Friday and in a
letter to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe announced
the victory of the opposition in four cities. According to that
organization, the opposition has won the local elections on November 17 in
another 10 cities.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-7>
<H1>
Stolpe announces legal proceedings against magazine "Der Spiegel"
</H1>
Brandenburg's State Premier Stolpe has rejected the accusation of trying to
influence witnesses and announced legal proceedings against the news
magazine "Der Spiegel". With repetitions, insinuations and untruths, the
magazine is continuing its denunciation campaign against him into the fifth
year, Stolpe said in Potsdam. "Der Spiegel" had reported that Stolpe has
tried to manipulate a former church employee as a witness. Her statement
about the award of the GDR medal of merit decisively exonerated Stolpe.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-05-8>
<H1>
Cold spell in Europe persists
</H1>
Europe remains freezing cold. Temperatures are sinking again due
to another high named Urban. The winter weather is still causing problems
in many parts of Europe. More than 160 people have died because of the cold
in Europe so far, more than 40 deaths have been reported from Germany
alone, and an end of the frost  period is not in sight. In Spain, this is
the coldest winter since 20 years. In France, especially the Rhone Valley
Expressway is having problems. In Germany, several thousand tourists on
North Sea islands had an unusual end of their vacation: because the ferries
were frozen in, the tourists had to be flown back to the mainland by
airplane. Customers of national and international flights saw at least 65
flights out of Frankfurt canceled. In Munich, thousands had to use trains
because their flights were late.

