<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-1>
<H1>
FDP favours poll on dual citizenship
</H1>
In the discussion about dual citizenship for children born to foreigners,
the FDP is now pushing the CDU/CSU to agree to a poll in the Bundestag.
After an executive board meeting, the FDP secretary-general Guido
Westerwelle announced the failure in looking for a compromise. He
criticized Chancellor Kohl's warning that a revision of current laws
would have several million Turks would crowd into Germany. According to
Westerwelle, such a valuation is misleading and not justified by the
facts. Earlier, FDP chairman Gerhardt had declared that an all-party
solution could be considered. But the CSU warned the FDP to vote with the
opposition in the Bundestag.
The FDP proposes that children born to foreigners shall receive dual
citizenship at birth and make a decision for one at the age of 18. The
chairman of the legal committee, Almann (CDU), asked his party to
consider a compromise. In his opinion, a reorganisation of citizenship
law would be impossible without an admission of a temporarily limited
dual citizenship at the same time.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-2>
<H1>
Scientologists demonstrate for recognition as church
</H1>
About 2000 supporters of the controversial Scientology organisation
demonstrated in Berlin for religious freedom. The participants came from
nearly all western European countries and the US. On banners and in songs
the scientologists demanded tolerance and freedom for their community.
Some banners likened the alleged prosecution of scientologists in Germany
to the murder of Jews by the Nazis. At the same time, only a few people
demonstrated against the Scientology Church and accused it of claiming
sect-like absoluteness. The scientologists continued their demonstration
until the evening with a march through the city, a concert in front of
the Brandenburg Gate and a final service in front of the
Gedaechtniskirche church.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-3>
<H1>
Forecast: Economic growth and rising unemployment
</H1>
Six leading economic research institutes forecast a slight increase in
economic growth, but also a rise in unemployment. The experts will
officially deliver their autumn report tomorrow. According to
Handelsblatt newspaper, the report estimates the 1998 unemployment rate
at 4.42 million (average of 4.38 million in 1997) despite better economic
perspectives. The institutes forecast an economic growth of 2.4% for the
current year and 2.8% for the next. The development in eastern Germany is
seen as less favourable than in the west.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-4>
<H1>
Discussion on check-up of men subject to military service continues
</H1>
The discussion about possible consequences resulting from videos with
right-wing radical contents taped by soldiers continues. Defense Minister
Volker Ruehe announced today that he will stick to his plan of screening
draftees for possible right-wing tendencies. In a newspaper interview he
said that the army had to be informed about possible former right-wing
activities of its soldiers.
Minister of Justice Schmidt-Jortzig wrote to Ruehe that neither criminal
nor educational records contain any information about motives for
punishable acts and that the Defense Minister's proposal therefore would
be useless. Ruehe's spokesman rejected reproaches that in some barracks
superiors allowed distribution of right-wing propaganda material. A
reserve lance-corporal (?) was accused of right-wing extremist activities
by the Ministry of Defense after he had given this information to a
newspaper.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-5>
<H1>
President of Ghana to start official visit to Germany
</H1>
In the afternoon, the President of the Republic of Ghana, Rawlings (sp?),
arrived for an official one-week visit to Germany. At his first stop in
Hamburg, Rawlings signed a treaty for the construction of a joint
research station. On Wednesday, the president will meet with President
Roman Herzog and Chancellor Helmut Kohl, among others. Additional stops
will be Rostock and Berlin. Rawlings has ruled Ghana for 16 years. In
1981 the former air force general gained power after a revolt. Last year,
the people of Ghana elected him as president for a second time.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-6>
<H1>
Several A-class cars tilted over during test
</H1>
New Mercedes A-class cars have tilted over several times during tests
drives. Last week's incident in Sweden, where a so-called "Baby-Benz" had
toppled over during a test, was not the only one, the chief of
engineering for the
new model, Kist, said on public TV. Daimler-Benz emphasizes that there is
no reason to stop mass production of the new A-Class.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-7>
<H1>
Waste incinerator plants shall burn more valuable material
</H1>
According to information obtained by SDR public radio, waste incinerator
plants in Baden-Wuerttemberg will burn more recyclable material. All
plants in Baden-Wuerttemberg have capacities because citizens continue to
produce less waste.
The solution could be to burn recyclable materials with a high heating
value (e.g. wood and plastic scraps). They have been burnt since the
summer in incinerators in Stuttgart. Officials describe this as
"energetic recycling". The recyclable materials are burnt together with
domestic waste, but at much lower costs. In Stuttgart it costs 180 DM per
ton. The officials hope that the industry will produce about 20.000 tons
of valuable material, so that the free capacities will be used much
better. Similar discussions are going on in Mannheim and in Goeppingen.
The treatment of domestic waste is different because there is no
obligation for the delivery of valuable garbage. So the industry can
choose where to leave the waste at low costs. They can negotiate with
incinerator plants with capacities on special prices.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-27-8>
<H1>
13 persons injured in train collision with truck
</H1>
13 persons were injured in a collision near Hanover between a local
train and a truck. Shortly before 19:00h the train drove into the truck
at an unsecured railway crossing between Bissendorf and
Langenhagen-Kaltenweide. According to a police spokesman, the truck
driver possibly might have tried to shunt at the narrow railway-passage.

