<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-1>
<H1>
Refocusing in Bonn
</H1>
After the resignation of Oskar Lafontaine from all his offices, the Coalition
of Bonn appears to be remaking its economic policy. Already, the government
has indicated that it leans towards a more industry-friendly tax policy. Minister
of Economics, Mr. Mueller, told the news magazine "Focus" that he will push
for significantly lower corporate taxes. The Minister President of North
Rhine-Westphalia, Mr. Clement, voiced a similar opinion on a Sat.1 TV. He
said a corporate tax below 35 percent is conceivable. "I have intentionally
mentioned [the figure] 35, and less if possible. The Government's job is not
to accumulate as much money as possible, but as much as needed," Clement
stated.

<P>
Meanwhile, SPD and The Greens were taken aback by the industry associations'
vocal cheering over Lafontaine's departure. The Greens' executive
spokesperson, Ms. Roestel, called these comments audacious and tactless.

<P>
Chancellor Schroeder has apparently initiated a reversal of course in energy
policy as well. This was reported by "Welt am Sonntag." In the ongoing
consensus talks with power companies and unions, Schroeder has ceded ground.
Schroeder has vehemently rejected The Greens' demand to shut down three to
four nuclear power plants within this legislative term.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-2>
<H1>
Majority of Germans welcome Lafontaine's resignation
</H1>
Lafontaine's resignation from the office of Finance Minister has been
positively received by a majority of Germans. According to a survey of 1000
individuals by the poll-taking institute Forsa, 43 percent welcome
Lafontaine's departure, 42 percent regret it. According to polls taken by
dimap of Bonn for "Welt am Sonntag," 48 percent view the decision as
positive, only 29 percent oppose Lafontaine's quitting.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-3>
<H1>
Had switch to Eichel been in the cards for a while?
</H1>
The newspaper "Berliner Morgenpost" has reported that the switch to Hans
Eichel as Federal Finance Minister may have been planned for some time
already and became clear after the state elections in Hesse. Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder is said to have known about Oskar Lafontaine's discontent
with the office of Finance Minister. Mr. Lafontaine had frequently complained
about the large burden for himself and his family. According to the "Berliner
Morgenpost," the offer to Eichel explains also Eichel's change of mind about
the vote on the tax reform package in the Bundesrat, the Upper House of
Parliament. On the evening of election day in Hesse, Eichel, one of the big
losers in that election, had announced that he would abstain from the pivotal
vote in the Bundesrat, which is composed of state representatives. Just one
day later, he agreed to vote in favor of the controversial tax bill. Last Friday,
the Bundesrat formally voted on the bill, before the new Hessian government
was formed. Had Eichel abstained, the tax package would have failed.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-4>
<H1>
First public appearance of Lafontaine after resigning as Finance Minister
</H1>
Nobody knows the real reason yet why Oskar Lafontaine has thrown in the towel,
and hence speculation abounds. Mr. Lafontaine made his first public appearance
since his departure this morning on the balcony of his house, but would not
make any comments, saying: "You now have all the pictures, that's all I can do
for you.  I'm a private man.  Public figures have to give interviews, I don't."

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-5>
<H1>
Discussion about Schroeder's becoming SPD chairman
</H1>
The SPD chairmanship also vacated by Oskar Lafontaine is now supposed to be
filled by Gerhard Schroeder as well. Although he is still somewhat controversial,
most party members expect that he will be assume the lead at the extraordinary
party convention in mid-April in Bonn. But some reservation is palpable, especially
among the party's left wing. The so-called "Circle of Frankfurt" that met in Berlin
today gave a conditional approval to Schroeder as party head. The party's left
wing will support Schroeder only if there is no change of course in the red-green
policy. For the JUSO [SPD's young members organization] head, Andrea Nales,
the Chancellor as party leader can only be a temporary solution.  For the mid-term,
the left-wing members aim at a split leadership shared by two individuals, because
the burden of two offices was too much even for Oskar Lafontaine. Detlev von
Larcher of the "Circle of Frankfurt" strictly opposes further promises of tax cuts,
as they have already been made by the minister presidents of Lower Saxony and
North Rhine-Westphalia, Mr. Glogowski and Mr. Clement, respectively. In view of
the precarious budget situation, such statements are irresponsible, von Larcher
said. The leaders of the left wing, which includes the Ministers Ms. Buhlmann
and Ms. Wiczorek-Zeul, have threatened severe internal conflict and potential
loss of the Coalition's ability to act if there is a change of the political course.
There is no fresh start here, but the left wing rather expects the whole party to be
willing and determined to fight for the reform objectives, namely ecological tax
reform, phase-out of nuclear power and reform of immigration law.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-6>
<H1>
Meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers
</H1>
The EU Foreign Ministers have joined today in the Rheingau region for
consultations. The items on the agenda are management of crises within the
European Union, the upcoming peace mission and granting the warring
parties in Kosovo a few more days for a diplomatic solution.

<P>
The Kosovo adversaries are to sign the agreement of Ramboulliet at the end of
next week at the latest. According to diplomats, the EU is inclined to grant the
Kosovo Albanians and Serbs four more days to negotiate. The EU Foreign
Ministers expect that the UCK rebels are more likely to agree than the Serbs.
Should a diplomatic solution fail, nobody doubts that the consequences would
be horrific, massive massacres. The ministers' luncheon took longer than
scheduled, probably owing to the latest acts of violence in Kosovo. The EU
insists that the Yugoslavians and the Kosovo-Albanians sign both the military
and the political part of the agreement at the same time. The leadership in
Belgrade still resists allowing the deployment of NATO ground troops. It
seems that an extension of the deadline is the only thing the European Union
is still willing to grant Yugoslav President Milosevic.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-7>
<H1>
Confession in case of dismembered corpse
</H1>
The police has solved the case of a cruelly dismembered corpse found in a side
arm of the Elbe channel near Isenbuettel in Lower Saxony. A 39-year-old man
from Celle has largely confessed the murder of the 59-year-old woman. The
perpetrator had previous convictions for sexual violence. According to his
testimony, he killed the woman after sexual acts in his apartment. The
corpse was found in early March without head, arms or legs.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-13-8>
<H1>
Banning car traffic nonsensical?
</H1>
Limiting automobile traffic with the aim to drive down ozone levels during hot
summer months has only a minimal effect, according the Karlsruhe Research
Center. Speed limits and driving bans will reduce ozone levels by at most
five percent. Only the blanket deployment of catalytic converters in automobiles
would yield significant improvements. By 2005, this could lead to a 30 percent
reduction of peak ozone levels.

