<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-1>
<H1>
State lottery stores uncoded credit card data
</H1>
According to Munich's trade magazine "Internet World", the
Norddeutsche Klassenlotterie (NKL) stored credit card data from
NKL clients who ordered tickets via Internet in uncoded form on
a server that could be accessed from any part of the world.
Any user with Internet access and a browser could go through
these data.On buying a ticket on-line, customers had to fill out
a special form with personal data such as full name, phone and
fax number, credit card number and validity date.
These data were subsequently stored by NKL in open, uncoded
files on their computer, exposed to all kinds of mischief. By
means of a brief telephone test, "Internet World" editors made
sure that the data were authentic. The web page administrator
was informed by the editors and the leak has since been closed.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-2>
<H1>
Bundestag debate over Monetary Union
</H1>
In the Bundestag, a marathon-debate started this morning on the
introduction of the Euro. Differences of opinion between
government and opposition notwithstanding, both sides agree on
Euro launch as planned.

<P>
Starting the debate, federal finance minister Waigel stressed
the fact that the monetary union is coming at the right time.
"Nobody must be afraid of Euro, it is a sure thing", Waigel
promised. Even before Euro-introduction, interest rates
and inflation are lower than ever. The fears of skeptics and of
the over-cautious have come to nothing; instead, the new Euro is
as trusted by the market as the old Mark was. For Waigel,
though, today's vote is more than just an economically sensible
decision. The Euro is not an adventure, but of course there are
risks involved, but these risks are manageable, according to the
minister.
The opinion is shared by SPD's finance expert Ms. Matthaeus-
Maier. The Euro is good for Germany, she said, but she does not
trust government's ability to administer the risks. Whoever
puts all his cards in fighting mass unemployment on national
concepts alone is certainly barking up the wrong tree. She also
called it a grave mistake not to have called a plebiscite on
Euro in Germany as other countries did. accordingly, there was
lack of information on the new currency at a popular basic level
which led to the skeptical feeling that nowadays prevails.
Former minister of exterior Genscher, honorary chairman of FDP,
in his most recent Bundestag speech praised the importance of
the Euro for European Union. Both chancellor Kohl and opposition
candidate for chancellor Schroeder came out in favor of
launching the Euro, Schroeder expressing a warning against
possible consequences on the social level. Earlier, Kohl had
praised the Euro and harshly criticized skeptics.
In the afternoon, Bundestag members rolled out a landslide pro-
Euro vote. Bundestag president Hirsch announced that 575 members
voted in favor of the Euro launch in Germany and an additional
10 European Union countries. Ther wer 35 nays and 5 abstentions.
PDS voted nay as a block.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-3>
<H1>
State government firm against eco-tax
</H1>
Bavaria's minister for the economy Wiesheu, speaking before the
state parliament, said German energy rates were excessively high
right now. If there were to be a nationwide raise, this would be
highly detrimental to the Federal Republic's economic
competitiveness. Even in comparison with other countries who
have been paying energy taxes for years, Germany's price level
was still too high.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-4>
<H1>
Less deaths in traffic
</H1>
After a black January with a dramatic increase in deaths from
accidents, February has brought a positive upturn just as
dramatic.
According to the federal statistical office in Wiesbaden
525 persons were killed by traffic accidents, which is roughly
8,2% below last year before. In the old (West German) states
the number of traffic deaths reached the lowest level since
traffic statistics are being recorded.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-5>
<H1>
Suspended sentence for infanticide
</H1>
A mother who by her own confession had killed her severely
disabled out of pity was sentenced to 2 years on probation by a
Munich court. The judges accepted the prosecution's proposalof
simple manslaughter. Last November, the 37-year-old Bulgarian
has smothered her 5-year-old daughter, who suffered from
sever disabilities, with diapers and then surrendered the body
to the police.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-23-6>
<H1>
Bavarian SPD wants to stop sale of apartments
</H1>
The SPD in the Bavarian state parliament wants to stop the sale
of 20.000 railway workers' apartments. They introduced an urgent
proposition calling on government to avoid selling the units.
One spokesperson said it was unbearable to have federal
government make a rummage sale of government property in order
to cover holes in the budget, totally disregarding the interests
of tens of thousands of tenenats. In Munich alone, 6,000
apartments are to be sold; another 4,000 are in Eastern Bavaria

