<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-1>
<H1>
Constitutional Court favours married couples with children
</H1>
Married couples with children will fare considerably better with
their taxes due to several rulings by the Federal Constitutional Court.
According to one decision by the Court, the state is obligated for the first
time to recognise the job of raising children within a marriage. Beginning
next year, the tax exemption will be increased in two stages; for example, for
a married couple with one child 9,500 DM per year. Up to now, only single
people or permanently separated parents received this advantage.
The governing coalition as well as the opposition welcomed the Constitutional
Court's decision as a strengthening of the family. Federal Family Minister
Christine Bergmann announced that the government would implement the ruling as
soon as possible. Federal Finance Minister Oskar Lafontaine calculated the
loss of tax revenue at over 22 billion DM. However, Lafontaine also welcomed
the ruling, saying that the SPD had always thought that families should be
accorded more support. He added that adjustments would have to be made in the
budget to offset possible losses. The Deputy Chairman of the CDU/CSU
parliamentary group, Friedrich Merz, called on the government to present a
budget reflecting these tax changes. He said the previous proposal made by the
SPD and the Greens was now invalid.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-2>
<H1>
Meeting planned between Schroeder and heads of energy companies
</H1>
Before the start of the energy consensus talks, Federal Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder wants to meet again with the heads of energy companies. A
governmental spokesperson announced that the meeting would take place this
coming Monday. Apparently, an attempt will be made to clarify some
particularly difficult issues. The energy companies had harshly criticised the
government's decision to end atomic reprocessing in one year.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-3>
<H1>
Tax exemption for spouses with "casual jobs"
</H1>
Spouses who supplement the family income with a so-called 630-Mark job
will not have to pay taxes on this amount according to a report in the
"Hannoverschen Allgemeinen Zeitung." The newspaper obtained its information
from sources within coalition circles. According their sources, the reform of
the 630-Mark jobs, which the SPD and the Greens plan to present to the
Bundestag on Friday, will contain this provision. The tax exemption is
justified by the fact that "casual jobs" act as a bridge to the labor market.
The report has meanwhile been confirmed by members of the coalition in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-4>
<H1>
Seiters calls for willingness for compromise on citizenship law
</H1>
Bundestag Vice-president Rudolf Seiters (CDU/CSU) called on the federal
government to compromise on the reform of the citizenship law in the interest
of domestic peace as well as of the foreigners living in the country. In a
newspaper interview, Seiters said he believed it was possible, within a
multilateral framework, to come to an agreement on regulations for minor
children of foreigners. All social groups should take part in the discussion
in a responsible manner, said Seiters. Then an acceptable agreement could be
reached as it was in the compromise on the asylum law in 1993.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-5>
<H1>
Construction trade union makes no concrete wage demands
</H1>
The industrial trade union for construction, agriculture and the
environment (IG BAU) is entering collective bargaining for the 1.1 million
employees of the construction industry without a specific demand for wage
increases. Union president Klaus Wiesenhuegel said in Frankfurt that
allocation latitude should be utilised for a collective wage agreement that is
secure for the long-term. It is important to the union to prevent poverty
among its retired members, to reduce unemployment as well as to improve the
incomes of its members. Among other things, the union wants to have an
additional pension included in the agreement.
The employers welcomed the union's relinquishing of a percentage increase; in
this way essential issues could be addressed more easily.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-6>
<H1>
General ban of smoking are basically allowed
</H1>
Agreements of companies about a general ban of smoking at
work are basically acceptable. This was confirmed by the federal
industrial tribunal in a judgement published today. Legal action
can only be appealed against such agreements, when this causes
major distress for the smokers. With that, a judge from Kassel
dismissed the action of a chemical laboratory assistant, who had
filed a suit against a general smoking ban in his company. The man
had said that the situation to only be allowed to smoke outside the
company as being unacceptable.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-7>
<H1>
Guenther Strack is dead
</H1>
The actor Guenther Strack is dead. The 69 year old
died last night of a heart failure in his house in the Muenchsteinach
in the Lower Frankonia. In the summer of 1996, Strack had had a stoke,
from which he had largely recovered. The actor got famous through
TV series such as "Ein Fall fuer zwei", "Diese Drombuschs" and his role
as a catholic priest in "Mit Leib und Seele".

<DOC de-news-1999-01-19-8>
<H1>
Verdict of not guilty in spectacular poison murder trial
</H1>
The federal tribunal has suprisingly acquitted the woman
who got condemn for poisoning her niece. According to the BHG, there
does not seem to exist a motive for the crime or indisputable evidence
for the killing of the child. The 44 year old woman from the svebian
Tamm, had been previously sentenced to lifelong imprisonment  in two
trials based on circumstantial evidence for killing her 7 year old
niece with an ice cream poisoned with arsenic.

