<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-1>
<H1>
Personnel debate in the SPD
</H1>
The SPD is becoming increasingly nervous two weeks before the elections in
Lower Saxony. A discussion over the candidate for Chancellor was renewed
again after the Party Left voiced their concerns in a paper over the possible
candidate Gerhard Schroeder. According to the German magazine "Der
Spiegel", SPD head Lafontaine apparently cooperated with the left wing of
the party more than he admits. Prominent Social Democrats are therefore
now calling for unity. This is especially troublesome for Bavarian SPD
head Renate Schmidt. Instead of combining their strengths for the upcoming
elections in Lower Saxony as well as in the Federal Government, her party
members are wasting their time with their tiresome quarrels over the
candidate for Chancellor. During an election event in Braunschweig,
Schmidt stressed the party priorities. The SPD has to replace the
present government coalition. According to Renate Schmidt, whether they
achieve this goal with either Schroeder or Lafontaine as their candidate
is unimportant. After all, said Schmidt, both are classes above a
drained, weak Kohl. The Social Democrats were also called to order by some
of their most prominent former politicians. In an interview with "Bild am
Sonntag", Hans-Juergen Wischnewski warned his colleagues that whoever
takes part in the personal quarrels aids in making a political turnover in
Bonn impossible. Such undiplomatic behavior is not unusual, according to
the former Bremen SPD mayor Hans Koschnik. Whenever the SPD looks good in
the public eye, he said in an interview, some of the party members do
everything they can do ruin this impression. The Union calmly observes
this discussion. Their candidate is Helmut Kohl. A new discussion in the Union
cannot be ruled out even by the regional head of the CSU Michael Glos. Glos
stated in the news magazine "Der Spiegel" that stupidity by individuals
cannot be avoided in a large people's party.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-2>
<H1>
CDU builds front against labour union election campaign
</H1>
The Christian Democratic Union is building a front against
the labour union election campaign that started today. As a result, the
employer organization of the CDU demanded the resignation of IG Metall
boss Zwickel.  Federal employment minister Bluem demanded that the
membership fees could be used for better purposes than an election
campaign. The CDU social politician Louven called the action an open
election aid for the SPD. The DGB stressed that the campaign is oriented
around material themes and is not connected with any election recommendations.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-3>
<H1>
Southwest SPD enters Bundestag election with Daeubler-Gmehlin
</H1>
The Baden-Wuerttemberg SPD has gotten once again to the front
of the Bundestag election with their candidate, Bundestag representative
Hertha Daeubler-Gmehlin. The 54 year old lawyer from Tuebingen has been
placed at first  place on the regional list in the SPD regional party
convention in Karlsruhe. However, with 78 percent her success is
everything but good, since she has no  opponent at first place. Hertha
Daeubler-Gmehlin is pleased anyway. "People like  me, people with edge,
are never elected unanimously." But that also means that the party favors
other candidates as well. For example, the environmental researcher
Ernst-Ulrich von Weizsaecker, new SPD candidate from Stuttgart, has a
sensational 95.8 percent and is ranked at ninth place. The first 25 places
on the regional list are assured seats in the Bundestag. There was no
fight for places on the list. The state party conference elected the
Waibling representative Hermann Scheer for second place and Rottweil
parliamentarian Klaus Kirschner for third place - just like four years
ago.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-4>
<H1>
Southwest SPD for a peaceful solution to the Iraq crisis
</H1>
The conflict with Iraq over control of weapons of mass human
destruction can somehow be settled diplomatically, according to the Baden-
Wuertemberg SPD. With a large majority, the SPD regional party convention
demanded that the government in Bonn do everything in their power in order to
avoid military intervention.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-5>
<H1>
Bavarian Greens with top candidate for Landtag for first time
</H1>
The Bavarian Green Party will enter the Landtag elections for this
first  time with a prominent top politic personality in the Fall. The
regional delegates convention in Coburg elected the 48 year old party
head Ruth Paulich from Upper Bavaria. The decision for a top candidate,
which hasn't existed in this form for the Greens in Bavaria, occurred
without any real fight. The supporters of the decision pointed out that
the other parties also only enter the elections, which are highly
influenced by the media, by pushing just one personality. The
opponents
argued that naming one main candidate goes against the traditional view
of the Green Party.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-6>
<H1>
Conditions for unemployment relaxed
</H1>
Stricter conditions for unemployment came into force at the beginning of
this year. The unemployed must appear at the "Arbeitsamt" (labour office)
every twelve weeks to not lose their entitlements for unemployment
benefits or aid. The Federal Labour Ministry found this to be an
unreasonable demand for the sick, pregnant, elderly or handicapped. They
are now viewed as exceptions to the rule. The rule that unemployed persons
appear every three months at the "Arbeitsamt" has  been in force
throughout Germany since January 1st. Whoever did not appear by the
authorities legally lost his or her salary entitlements. This is no longer
valid for people over 55 years of age, people with handicaps, people who
are sick, and pregnant  women. A speaker for the Federal Labour Ministry
confirmed this afternoon in "B5-aktuell". This exception resolution can
be traced back to an initiative of the special committee for labour and
social services. The committee felt that the ruling, which has been in
effect since the beginning of this year, was unreasonable for the
above-mentioned groups. The Ministry immediately encouraged the Federal
Labour Office to immediately apply this ruling in practice. The change
does not exclude the right of the authorities to invite unemployed
persons talks on finding jobs and personal consultations.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-7>
<H1>
Further decrease in premiums for care insurance encouraged
</H1>
Despite a clear no from the Bonn Coalition, companies and economic
officials insist on a decrease in premiums for "Pflegeversicherung" (care
insurance). In this way, a clear signal could be sent to decrease the
benefit contributions paid by employers. The FDP demanded a decrease
based on the federal reserve, however talks broke down when the union
refused to cooperate.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-8>
<H1>
Demonstration against the Federal government's education policy
</H1>
Approximately 2000 students protested today against the Federal
Government's education policy on the Marienplatz in Munich. Spokesmen for the
students demanded more money for schools and universities during the rally in
front of City Hall. Teachers and parents criticized that the number of
students in classes are increasingly growing while several thousand
teachers in Bavaria are unemployed.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-9>
<H1>
Dangerous explosive found in Korbach
</H1>
Police in Korbach found a kilogram of an especially dangerous, homemade
explosive during a search of several apartments in the city in North Hesse.
Background information of this finding is still unclear. According to the
investigators, the suspects that were arrested had nothing to do with right
or left wing extremist groups. Five arrests, a search of four apartments
and garages and a kilogram of highly explosive fuel. That is the result of
the activities last night in Korbach. A young woman and young man were
arrested in front of an apartment house. They had just left the apartment
in which the homemade, highly dangerous fuel was found. Three further men
were also arrested who were involved in making the material and planned on
selling it. A similar material was found a night ago in Kassel. Based on
information from the state police in Wiesbaden, one of the materials found
is acetone peroxide. The police ended up in Korbach while following leads
regarding the material, which can be highly dangerous when mixed with other
substances. Apparently the sale of a large amount of the explosive was to
have occurred there. The sale was stopped by a special police action that
led to the arrests. The police have excluded political reasons. The entire
operation is probably involved with a large drug ring in Hesse. The
police received a concrete tip about this probable association.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-14-10>
<H1>
Funeral services for murdered customs officers
</H1>
Approximately 1,500 family members, friends and colleagues
remembered the Saxon customs officers, who were murdered on the
German-Polish border in Ludwigsdorf, with a funeral service. Federal
Financial Minister Waigel offered his deepest regards to the surviving
friends and family in the Goerlitz town hall. He also included the
families of both customs officers shot in Constance. As the representative
employer of the murdered authorities, Waigel mentioned the opening
of the borders and liberalness; however, he also called for an increase in
the fight against crime.

