<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-1>
<H1>
G8-Summit in Denver
</H1>
In Denver, Colorado, the summit of the leading industrial nations
has begun with a banquet.  This summit can now be called the Summit
of 8 because, for the first time, Russia's president, Boris Jelzin,
is present for the entire meeting even though the Japanese still
refuse to accept Russia as a full member of the G7.  At any rate,
there is agreement in accepting Russia in the group of creditor
nations.
<P>
Although it is not a member of the G7, Russia is present as a
full-fledged partner for the first time.  For this reason,
President Clinton has dubbed the meeting the "Summit of Eight."
Even before the participants were officially welcomed, there had
been numerous bilateral meetings of the heads of state and
government.  After a private meeting with his colleague, Boris
Yeltsin, Mr. Clinton announced that Russia would be received into
the Paris club, the group of the most important creditor nations in
the world.  Earlier, Minister of the Exterior Kinkel had made clear
to the press that the group of nations was dissatisfied with the
dragging progress of the region in crisis.  On Saturday, political
topics and environmental protection are to be discussed; the latter
is on the agenda thanks to German initiative.  Then, the
urgent problems of the economy, jobs, growth, budgetary discipline
and currency stability will be considered.  The Summit will end on
Sunday with a joint communique.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-2>
<H1>
Reduction in unemployment is hardly within reach
</H1>
In the face of economic data which are still discouraging, there is
hardly any real prospect that the army of unemployed will decrease
in number. Chancellor Kohl has announced that the number of
unemployed is to be cut in half by the turn of the millenium.  With
approximately 4.5 million unemployed at present, that figure
appears to be utopian.  For this reason, Mr. Mai, the OETV Head,
has called for a renewed effort for the Alliance for Work and said
that systematic cooperation of employers, unions and politicians
was needed now.
<P>
Mr Zwickel, the IG-Metal-Head, is obviously  opposed to trying
once again for an alliance for work in Bonn.  Such an attempt is
only made once, he said during an interview with the HANNOVERSCHE
ALLGEMEINE and emphasized that he saw no chance of succeeding with
the federal government.  One can not help but note the resignation
in Mr. Zwickel's remarks because, as late as in the fall of 1995,
he had been among the chief initiators of a pact of the federal
government, unions and employers.  But then, in 1996, discussions
with Chancellor Kohl had come completely to naught, especially
because of the disagreement about the continuation of wages in case
of sickness.  In contrast to Mr. Zwickel, Mr. Mai, the head of the
OETV,  advocates renegotiation of a package of new regulations for
the labor market.  He did concede, however, that he could see no
basis for agreement with employers at this time.  Because, Mr. Mai
stated, the latter were not really interested in solving the job
crisis.  At the same time, Mr. Mai expressed his firm opposition to
the lowering of wages.  On the other hand, this is exactly what the
head of the Employers' Alliance, Mr. Hundt and BDI-President Mr.
Henkel demand.  They see the lowering of wages as the only way to
prevent the cutting of jobs in time of crisis.  To be sure, the
wind is taken out of the sails of this argument by a new study made
by the DGB [alliance of unions].  According to it, the capital
yield of businesses has been fully as high during the last two
years as it was during times of full employment while the wage
quota has dropped to its lowest point since the end of the war.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-3>
<H1>
No agreement between Bonn and Munich in Europe tussle
</H1>
Bavarian Premier Stoiber today raised doubts about the employment section of
the EU agreement in Amsterdam, to go along with his critical comments about the
Euro, aggrivating the Chancellor. The exchange of verbal blows between the Bonn
leader and the prince of the Bavarian branch of the party is threatening to
grow into a full-blown fracture. Press reports hinted at a reproach from the
Chancellor to the Premier for Stoiber's critical comments on the stability
criteria. For a dynamic force behind a united Europe like Kohl, paths of
thought like a delay of the Euro deadline are a mortal sin, because they
increase doubt in the population. The Chancellor apparently told Head of the
State Council Kurt Faltenhauser on the sidelines of the EU summit in Amsterdam
that he, Kohl, would not tolerate the further appearance of such a distraction.
Stoiber also did not want to tolerate it. He countered with the advice that the
Federal Chancellor did not have right of refusal for the comments of the
Premier of Bavaria. Now Stoiber has raised the stakes again. In the magazine
FOCUS he shared his doubts on the employment section of the EU agreement in
Amsterdam. In a prepublished speech the CSU politician excoriated the rerouting
of funds dedicated to the structure of the EU from that purpose to the employment program. This process could make planned savings impossible, as well as
making the planned eastward expansion significantly harder. Employment programs
for Europe would work to the disadvantage of Germany, as largest single net
contributor to the EU. Stoiber's comment was "That could get expensive". He
also commented negatively on plurality decisionmaking in the development
section. Stoiber maintains that the Federal Republic is running the danger of
being shamelessly outvoted by socialist governments. There has been no reaction
as of yet from Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-4>
<H1>
Child Protection League warns against ignoring growing child criminality
</H1>
The German Child Protection League has raised a warning against
ignoring growing criminality among children and youths. The CEO of the organization, Wilken, said that the solution to the problem cannot be decreed from
on high by officials and specialists. It must be teachers and parents who grasp
the initiative on this issue. According to Wilken, there are many sources of
the growing number of criminal youths. Along with terrible economic family
relations, causes are also to be found in the lack of moral role models and an
aggrivating living environment.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-5>
<H1>
Political polls have high correlation
</H1>
While the Bonn coalition battles over unity in questions of tax and financial
politics, political polls throughout the land find high levels of agreement.
The most recent prognosis is the ZDF "Politbarometer". According to it, the
image of Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Finance Minister Waigel and the Union all in
all has sunk to a new low. The figures that attract the most attention are not
strictly related to Federal Election results, because the Chancellor is not
directly elected by the populace, and so the question about the "candidate for
Chancellor" is not included. Nonetheless the headline over the results is
"60 percent prefer Schroeder over Kohl". When the opposition was so defined,
only 30 percent chose the CDU Chancellor. Consolation for the office holder:
He could still triumph over SPD leader Lafontaine by 44 to 38 percent. The
changes for the big parties were not so profound. The answer to the classic
so-called Sunday question was an unchanged 38 percent for the SPD. The Union
retreated only one percent to 37, the Greens were at 11 percent, compared to
10 percent in May. The FDP would be in the Bundestag according to the most
recent poll results, while the PDS would not, were they not to claim the
requsite 3 direct mandates. Both values are so close to the 5 percent line,
however, that even the Mannheim "Forschungsgruppe Wahlen" remarked that the
margin of error was greater than either the margin of the FDP or the PDS with
regards to the 5 percent level. Another truth about personality surfaced in the
values Schroeder gained over Kohl, as well as Kohl's over Lafontaine: No politician in over seven years got lower poll results than Finance Minister Waigel.

<DOC de-news-1997-06-21-6>
<H1>
Ochsenhauser becomes German team table tennis champion for first time
</H1>
The Table Tennis Friends of Ochsenhausen became German team table
tennis champions for the first time. Ochsenhausen won yesterday evening in the
decisive third playoff final over TTC Grenzau by 6:2.

