<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-1>
<H1>
Coalition approves tax law rejected by opposition.
</H1>
The planned reform of the German tax law will lead to the lowest tax rates in
the past 50 years, according to Finance Minister T. Waigel.  During an
official introduction of the concept before journalists in Bonn, Waigel
explained that the model would cause an extensive tax relief for almost all
tax payers and additionally simplify the tax system.  This would create the
conditions for more investments, economic growth and employment.  Referring to
the concerns of CDU experts for social policy about taxing retirement
payments, Waigel agreed that this is likely one of the most difficult parts of
the reform.  The average retiree would not have to pay higher taxes, though.
The parliamentary party leader of the SPD, Mr. Solms, stressed during the
press conference that substantial progress has been made towards the goal of
designing lower, fairer and easier taxes.  The coalition government declined
comment as to whether and by how much the sales tax might be increased.
Mr. Waigel said that the results of the commission for the refrom of the
pension plans should be awaited first.  Earlier, the parties of CDU/CSU and
FDP had internally approved the tax reform.  However, some members of the
CDU/CSU and FDP abstained or voted against the proposition.  Supposedly the
Minister of Employment, Mr. Bluem, and vice-parliamentary party leader,
Mr. Geissler, voted against the concept.  The proposition says that starting
1999, the rates for income tax should be between 15% and 39%, using a
combination of progressive and linear taxing rates.  For tax payers and
enterprises the total tax cut would add up to 30 billion DM.  In order to
finance this concept, special tax deductions are to be be reduced or
eliminated.  In the meantime the CDU/CSU and FDP coalition called on the SPD
to support the bill in the Bundesrat.  So far the oppositional parties
appeared to be resistant.  Criticism targeted mostly the possible hike of the
sales taxes.  State Premier of Lower Saxony Schroeder explained to the
"Sueddeutsche Zeitung" newspaper that the reform would cause mainly relief for
the higher incomes.  Conversely employer-representatives showed support for
the proposition.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-2>
<H1>
Talks between DGB, Chancellor Kohl and employers picking up again
</H1>
A series of meetings have boosted the likelihood for another edition of the
so-called Chancellor's round, talks focused on the unemployment situation.
The National Trade Union Federation (DGB) has confirmed today that DGB
chairman Mr. Schulte and Chancellor Kohl met last Friday.  The follow-up has
been scheduled for February.  According to the DGB, at the beginning of this
week Mr. Schulte and Mr. Hundt of the Employers' Association evaluated the
possibility of laying down key points for the reduction of overtime.  The
unions within the DBG umbrella organizations still hold controversial
positions towards renewed meetings with Chancellor Kohl and top
representatives of industry.  This will be a point on the agenda at the DBG
convention which has started today in Hattingen.  Meanwhile, SPD chairman
Mr. Lafontaine, too, has met with Mr. Hundt to discuss avenues out of the
current economic crisis.  No details were made public, though.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-3>
<H1>
Germany and Netherlands demand identification of origin for cattle
</H1>
In view of the latest BSE case within the European Union, the Ministers of
Agriculture of Germany and of The Netherlands have demanded a standardized
labeling system indicating the origin of cattle.  The Ministers said at the
Cologne-Bonn airport that a corresponding resolution could be passed in
February.  According to Federal Minister Borchert, evidence is accumulating
that carcasses of BSE infected animals have been imported directly from Great
Britain.  Only a genetic analysis could reveal whether the cattle originated
from mother cows sold to The Netherlands.  The Ministry of Agriculture in Bonn
wants to request EU funds to recompense farmers whose livestock falls under
the mandatory BSE slaughtering program.  A resolution was passed yesterday
according to which about 5,200 cattle imported from Great Britain and
Switzerland are to be killed.  The offspring are to be put under observation.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-4>
<H1>
Ms. Graefel-Zubaringsdorf warns of BSE-danger
</H1>
The representative for the Green party in the European Parliament Ms.
Graefel-Zubaringsdorf warned of the danger BSE poses.  Consumers should
accurately inform themselves of the origin of the beef.  However, there is no
reason for hysteria.  The probability of infection with the disease is
minimal.  According to Ms. Graefel-Zubaringsdorf the awareness of the
authorities for monitoring the disease has increased immensly.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-5>
<H1>
Swine fever spreading in the district of Paderborn
</H1>
The swine fever is spreading in the Westphalian district of Paderborn.
Already 130 animals suspected of having the disease had to be killed.  Two
other pig farms are suspected of the disease.  In the past weeks about 1,700
pigs in 14 farms were slaughtered because of the disease.  According to
experts, the virus is not transmissible to humans but sometimes leads to total
extermination of an entire stock.  Belgium has prohibited the import of pigs
from North-Rhine-Westphalia. The Belgian Minister of Agriculture said the
disease poses a direct threat to Belgian pig stock.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-6>
<H1>
New collective wage agreement for metal-union's coastal district
</H1>
The metal-union reached a new collective wage agreement for the coastal
district in Bremen yesterday.  This gives the 190,000 metal workers in nortern
Germany a 100% paid sick-leave, which already exists for all other national
districts.  Wages will rise by 1.5% this year and by 2.5% in 1998.  An
agreement was also reached on the disputed payment for long-term sickness.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-7>
<H1>
Fire at chemical plant in Memmingen
</H1>
A large-scale fire destroyed parts of a chemical plant in Memmingen this
morning.  The plant, which produces detergents for agricultural equipment,
caught fire at 4:00 a.m. this morning.  The flames spread rapidly and set the
entire plant on fire.  Some 500 firefighters were at the site.  A cloud of
hydrocyanic acid developed at the site, which lead to evacuation of nearby
residents.  Police suspects arson as reason for the fire, because two other
fires were detected in the basement of nearby houses from which seven
residents suffered fume poisoning.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-23-8>
<H1>
Figure Skating: Woetzel/Steuer win silver medal
</H1>
Mendi Woetzel and Ingo Steuer from Chemnitz won the silver medal at the
European Figure Skating Championships in Paris yesterday evening.
Defending world champions Marina Elstova and Andre Buschkov won the gold
medal.

