<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-1>
<H1>
Lafontaine calls for the end of the coalition debate in the SPD
</H1>
SPD head Lafontaine has appealed to his party to end the
debate within their ranks about the possible coalition constellations
immediately. He said at the Federal Convention of Young Socialists in Essen
that the SPD is not running an election campaigne. Lafontaine did however
talk about a possible red-green alliance after the Bundestag election. SPD
candidate for Chancellor Schroeder once again called upon the Greens to
change some points of their election program. He claims that their demand
for DM 5 for a liter of gasoline as well as the demand for Germany to withdraw
from NATO are out of touch. Schroeder said in an interview with the news
magazine Focus that the Greens are only hurting themselves and reducing the
prospect to remove the Kohl government. According to the SPD candidate, if
the Greens are still in command of all five of their senses, they will work
together. Schroeder is judging his possible coalition partner so harshly,
because it is hurting the poll values for Red-Green. The fraction leader
of the Greens in the Bundestag, Fischer, has admitted that his party has
made mistakes; however, he accused Schroeder at the same time of not
striving for a red-green coalition. However, at the same time, he accused
Schroeder of striving for a Grand Coalition in Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-2>
<H1>
Grand Coalition hopes to continue in Thuringia
</H1>
The Grand Coalition in Thuringia hopes to continue despite the
so-called computer affair crisis. The heads of the CDU and SPD agreed last
night to continue the government alliance in Erfurt. In a written
explanation, State Premier Vogel, CDU, expressed his trust in Minister of
the Interior Dewis of the SPD. Both sides agreed to no longer vote with
constantly changing majorities during voting in the Thuringia state
government. The SPD accused the CDU of working with the oppositional PDS
in Internal Affairs to further explain the missing data material. Dewis
plans to submit a final report soon to the Cabinet on the computer affair
investigations.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-3>
<H1>
Bavaria welcomes the Federal Bank's report on the Euro
</H1>
That was what I wanted to hear. With these words, Bavarian State Premiere
Stoiber commented yesterday on the Federal Bank's report on the Euro
start.  The Federal banker had given the green light since European
stability has been adequately achieved. However, Italy and Belgium still
need to improve, since their national debts are still much too high.
Bavaria's Minister of Finance Erwin Huber repeated this opinion this
afternoon at the beginning of a special session of the Bavaria cabinet
that should further establish Bavaria's future position regarding the
European Monetary Union.  Huber considers today's special session on the
Euro as one of the most important sessions of the cabinet during this
legislative period. It is a far-reaching decision that concerns every
citizen, which is naturally of great important for Bavaria's economic
position, and Bavaria is aware of the important role for a stabile
currency in Europe. The cabinet is considering the various suggestions
today;  the final decision will be made on April 24th in the Bundesrat.
During the three hour CSU Executive Board meeting yesterday, the
representatives all agreed that the efforts toward monetary stability has
to continue even after the European Monetary Union has begun and that
important and binding requirements for even more countries still need to
be produced. Alois Glueck, CSU fraction head in the Bavarian state
assembly, called the reports of the Federal Bank and European Monetary
Institute very open and believable at the cabinet session, since the
reports had not attempted to hide any problems and took the
responsibilities seriously. There were no differences of opinion at
yesterday's session of the Executive Board between the state and federal
levels of the CSU.  In fact, claimed Glueck, the comments of the EMU and
Federal Bank proved how justifiable the vigilant and somewhat critical
discussion was. Glueck felt that his party's position has been
corroborated and is in direct defiance of those who commented on their
critical role without any understanding of the party's views.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-4>
<H1>
Social democrats discuss a reduction of the top taxation rate
</H1>
The social democrats generally agree that the top taxation rate of 53
percent should be reduced. However, they do not agree on how much this
reduction should be. The social expert of the SPD, Dressler, turned
against his leading party friends who wanted to reduce the taxation rate
further than the 49 percent that has been planned up to now.  A top
taxation rate of 49 percent is justifiable, said Dressler in the Spiegel.
He does not understand why the upper regions should receive greater
relief. SPD candidate for chancellor Schroeder had explained that he could
imagine a reduction of less than 49 percent. The designated North
Rhine-Westphalia state leader Clement had suggested the top taxation rate
be fixed between 43 and 45 percent. In case the SPD should win, Dressel
would rather demonstrate a quick reaction in regards to pensions than in
wage and income taxes. If the social democrats get their way, pension
insurance should be relieved by approx.  15 billion DM in the next four to
six years. To achieve this, the value added tax has to once again be
raised by one percent, according to Dressler. Another alternative could be
an increase in the mineral oil tax. In addition, Dressler feels that the
SPD should also set an example with their health policy. The social
democrats have included getting rid of the Krankenhausnotopfer (an
additional 20 DM payment by those insured by non-private health insurance
companies for the upkeep of hospitals). The additional payment will not be
done away with in Bavaria. However, Dressler warns citizens not to get
their hopes up. His party will not be able to immediately correct the
social breakdown of health policies in the Federal government regarding
health policies. Chronically ill and elderly persons should however be
helped first.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-5>
<H1>
Seehofer suggest reducing health insurance premiums
</H1>
The explosions in health costs have led to continuous increases in health
insurance premiums in the past few years. However, the health insurance
companies are finally back in the black. For example, the non-private
insurance companies in western Germany achieved a plus of 1.1 billion DM
last year. This plus should be given back to the customers. The commercial
health insurance company and Techniker Krankenkasse (health insurance
company for technical workers) have announced that they will be lowering
their premiums by up to 0.4 percent points. Federal Minister of Health
Horst Seehofer thinks this idea needs to be imitated. In a magazine
interview, the Minister called upon the health insurance companies to
reduce their premiums considerably. According to Seehofer, just like there
are good and not so good people, there are some health insurance companies
that are good and some that are not so good. Some insurance companies,
such as in eastern Germany, could not be expected to lower their premiums
since they have especially difficult financial burdens. Other insurance
companies, who do not intend to lower their premiums, will have to exert
themselves in order to stay competitive. Seehofer assured at the same time
that there will be no new health reform in the next legislative period.
The structural requirements have been concluded. However, said the Federal
Minister of Health, the financial partial payment by individuals needs to
be further increased in order to maintain the present level of social
insurance in Germany.  
<P>
The AOK has turned downed the demands of the
Federal Minister of Health Seehofer. AOK board of director member Ahrens
stated in Saarland radio that he doesn't think much of lowering the
premiums only to increase them again.  He wants to maintain stabile
premiums for a certain time period. He confirmed that the AOK has saved a
lot of money with the partial payment plan for pharmaceuticals; however,
he claims that the company will have to spend that money in eastern
Germany in view of the financial situation there.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-6>
<H1>
CDU holds future-oriented forum in Halle
</H1>
The CDU held a future-oriented forum in Halle dedicated to domestic
security issues. The battle against organized crime was at the top of the
agenda. Mr. Hintze, CDU General Secretary, stressed once again that
foreign criminals should be deported from Germany without any compromises.
Mr. Hintze told approximately 350 forum participants that those who bring
violence to Germany forfeit their right to residency.  Dealing with
organized crime is a challenge which every constitutional state must meet.
Crime does not stop at the borders of Germany, he continued.  This and
similar statements became the motto for discussion forums in Halle.  The
forum participants are almost exclusively CDU politicians and CDU party
members. It is intended to be a party-specific event that was not
advertised to the general public. The choice of the largest city in
Saxony-Anhalt as the site of the forum was no accident;  state parliament
elections will take place here in four weeks. Saxony-Anhalt, under
red/green (CDU/Greens) leadership, has the highest rise in crime in the
country. Domestic security, Mr. Hintze stressed at the opening of the
forum, is not only an election year issue. It is also necessary to put a
stop to international organized crime.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-7>
<H1>
Christina laid to rest
</H1>
Christina Nitsch, age 11, was laid to rest today in her hometown of
Struecklingen, Lower Saxony.  In the afternoon, residents of near-by
Ramslohe held a solemn memorial service in memory of the slain girl. She
was sexually molested and subsequently murdered two weeks ago by an
unidentified culprit. Mourners held a silent march, following the route
Christina took by bicycle from the public swimming pool leading to her
home, prior to her abduction. The memorial procession included the parents
of Kim Kerkow of Varel, whose daughter was also the victim of sexual
molestation. Attempts of a private television company to get an interview
with Kim's parents during the memorial procession were met with great
indignation. Preparations for Christina's memorial service and burial
continued throughout the morning in Struecklingen. Church bells rang
continuously in the town starting at 11 a.m.  Funeral proceedings began at
2 p.m. in the catholic St. Georg-Kirche (Church of St. George).  Pastor
Ulrich Balmann, who held the service together with his colleague from the
Evangelical church Ms. Testa, admitted that performing the service would
be a harrowing task for him.  The local music club and sports
organizations participated in the ceremony. Christina's schoolmates from
class 6e of the Saterland school were also present. A scheduled choral
tribute did not take place because, as Pastor Balmann put it, everyone was
literally choked with grief.  Around 2,000 people said goodbye to
Christina at the memorial service.  The St. Georg-Kirche in Struecklingen,
where Christina frequently served as an altar girl, could not contain the
many mourners. Hundreds of people stood outside on the town's main street
and listen to the ecumenical service over loudspeakers. Catholic parish
priest Ulrich Balmann spoke of the terrible days of uncertainty while
Christina was missing and of the moment in which people learned that the
girl, nicknamed Nelli, had been brutally murdered. He then expressed his
opposition to demands for the death penalty for the murderer. The parish
priest noted that, if we demand the death of the culprit, we are no better
than he is. Instead, everyone should do his or her part to fill the world
with love--a world in which children can grow up in safety. After the
memorial service, a funeral procession carried the girl's small, white
casket to her grave.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-8>
<H1>
Deile has more financial problems than previously believed
</H1>
Media and real estate entrepreneur Rolf Deile appears to have
more financial difficulties than previously believed. The news magazine
Der Spiegel reported that much of Mr. Deile's collection of paintings as
well as many stocks of his music company Stella AG have been sold. There
are heavy land charges on Mr. Deile's properties. Mr. Deile received 50
million marks from the Baden-Wuerttemberg State Credit Bank in exchange
for five percent of Stella stocks. This sale will certainly be the object of
controversy because the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, in a controversial
decision, has agreed to act as a guarantor to Mr. Deile for the amount of 30
million marks.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-28-9>
<H1>
Daylight savings time begins tonight in Europe
</H1>
Daylight savings time begins tonight  in countries of the European
Union and in neighboring countries. At 2 a.m., clocks in Germany will be
moved ahead by one hour to 3 a.m. Daylight savings time will end this year
on October 25th.

