<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-1>
<H1>
Metals industry wage conflict: arbitration
</H1>
The IG Metall union will accept unstructured arbitration in the wage
conflict in the industry. The union's federal executive suggested former
Justice Minister Hans-Jochen Vogel (SPD) as arbitrator, and the Employers'
Association in Baden-Wuerttemberg has accepted. According to the president
of the state Association, Fritsche, arbitration will likely begin on
Tuesday. The union, however, has set a deadline of midnight the next day,
Wednesday; failing results at that time, the union will initiate a
first-stage strike vote, with an eye to labour action in
Baden-Wuerttemberg on February 22. The employers had made the offer of
special arbitration in the hope of yet avoiding a strike. The union,
however, expects a significantly better wage offer, and intends to
maintain its hard-nosed stance, unwilling to accept any offer dependent
upon employers' earnings. Union boss, Klaus Zwickel, said that the
workers' representatives in the factory committees had, over the last few
weeks, come out against compromise on that point because they knew that
that would 'make them more vulnerable to blackmail from the employers'.
Zwickel also said that he hopes there remain enough reasonable voices in
the employers' camp helping to avert a strike. The union boss called the
imminent arbitration talks the final attempt at a peaceful solution to the
conflict. President of the national Employers' Association, Dieter Hundt,
has once more warned IG Metall against a strike. He said a labor battle
would strangle economic growth, and a strike would put newly-created jobs
at risk.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-2>
<H1>
Ill-will in Red-Green Coalition
</H1>
The tone within the Red-Green coalition is getting sharper. Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder today accused the Greens of a deficient sense of
reality. Obviously thinking of the controversial withdrawal from nuclear
energy, Schroeder said on ZDF television that a decision's chances of
success must not be assessed only after the fact; rather, he said, the
coalition had to debate it first. Federal Environment Minister Juergen
Trittin, on the other hand, complained that political agreements with the
SPD often had a half-life of mere hours.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-3>
<H1>
Glogowski expects even looser store hours
</H1>
Premier Gerhard Glogowski of Lower Saxony expects store hours to be
loosened even more in the future. In a newspaper interview, the Social
Democrat said that, given the growing-together of Europe, and increasing
competition in the big cities, the need for greater flexibility could not
be ruled out. He added, however, that efforts must be undertaken to
implement changes in a socially responsible manner.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-4>
<H1>
Death of Algerian asylum-seeker
</H1>
Following the death of an Algerian asylum-seeker, several groups have
called for rallies in the city of Guben in the state of Brandenburg. A
vigil was to be held this afternoon, attended, by State Premier Manfred
Stolpe, among others. The 28-year-old Algerian, along with another
foreigner, was hounded through the city yesterday morning by young
right-wing radicals. According to police, the man cut open an artery in
his leg when he tried to reach safety by jumping through the glass door of
an apartment building, and bled to death.
Five youths between 17 and 18 years old have been taken into custody, all
known for previous acts of violence and right-wing rhetoric, and will face
a magistrate today. The Public Prosecutor's Office is asking for warrants
to arrest them for manslaughter, coercion, and disturbing the peace.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-5>
<H1>
More children and youths dependent on social aid
</H1>
More and more children and youths under the age of 18 in Germany are
dependent on social aid. The number of officially registered recipients in
the East has doubled within six years, and in the same time has also risen
significantly in the West. According to statistics presented today by the
Federal Press Office, more than 1 million children and youths were
receiving social aid at the end of 1997. On average, 68 of every 1000
children depended upon support from the social agencies of the country.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-14-6>
<H1>
Riester: calculation of pension increases must be reassessed
</H1>
Labour Minister Walter Riester says it is possible that pensions may, in
future, no longer be tied to net increases in income. He said that tax
reforms and a recent Constitutional Court ruling in favour of families
will increase net incomes so much, that the established method of
calculation would bankrupt the pension funds. Thus, as Riester told BILD
newspaper, that method must be reassessed.

