<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-1>
<H1>
Fall economic report: Economy picks up, but still more unemployed
</H1>

Bonn. The economic situation in Germany is expected to recover by the
end of 1998, without bringing a turn-around on the job market, however.
This result was presented today in this Fall's economic report by the
six main economy think tanks. According to the experts, the German
economy will see a 2.4% growth in 1997, and a 2.8% growth in 1998. In
spite of the growth, the researchers forecast the increase in the
average number of unemployed persons to be 4.42 million. The 1998
rises in net wages will also be lower than the growth rate.

The State's financial policy has been critized for not being 'very
predictable'. According to the tax estimation made in May, the
institutes expect a shortfall in inland revenue of more than DM16
billion. According to the experts, Germany has nonetheless good
chances this year to satisfy the criteria for taking part in the
European Monetary Union (EMU).

The report seems to agree with both the coalition's and the SPD's
opinion. The government takes the report as proof for the continuing
recovery of the economy. According to Finance Minister Theo Waigel,
the report shows that the opposition, by applying their "turn down"
policy, has missed out on a big chance to reduce unemployment.

The opposition, however, demands a turn-around of the government's
policies on the job market and on the economy. The Federal government
and five of the six think tanks also demand further wage restrictions,
while the SPD and one of the institutes insist on wage increases.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-2>
<H1>
SPD faction pushes dual citizenship
</H1>

Bonn. The SPD faction in the Bundestag (lower house of parliament) is
willing to vote for a possible group motion on dual citizenship,
supposedly to be initiated by the Commisioner for Foreigners. SPD
parliamentary party leader Rudolf Scharping said that if Commissioner
for Foreigners Cornelia Schmalz-Jacobsen (FDP) makes an acceptable
reform proposal, the Social Democrats will commit themselves to it.
At the same time, Mr Scharping, expressed his fear that the Liberals
might not support such a proposal and not vote for dual citizenship.
Former Minister of Justice Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger (FDP)
believes the member parties of the coalition government will not come
to an agreement and therefore expects the group motion to be discussed
in the Bundestag. In the last few days, Chancellor Helmut Kohl,
Interior Minister Manfred Kanther, and several CDU politicians have
opposed the dual citizenship proposal.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-3>
<H1>
CDU/CSU and SPD against misuse of the DM610 jobs
</H1>

Bonn. Leading CDU/CSU and SPD politicians have condemned the practice
of changing full-time jobs into DM610 jobs. Federal Ministers Norbert
Bluem and Theo Waigel, as well as Lower Saxony's State Premier Gerhard
Schroeder have critized such a procedure as being a misuse of the
DM610-job scheme. At the same time they are willing to support a leeway
for part-time employments. A member of Lower Saxony's parliament said
that there will be a national initiative to restrict the application
of the DM610-job scheme. SPD parlamentary party leader Rudolf Scharping
stressed his party's willingness to find a compromise on the issue
if CDU/CSU were interested. According to FDP leader Wolfgang Gerhardt,
the FDP wants to hold on to the 'social security free' DM610 jobs.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-4>
<H1>
Foreign Minister Kinkel against German spelling reform
</H1>

Bonn. Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel is opposed to the planned
spelling reform of the German language. This is the first time that
a member of government has spoken out against the reform. Mr Kinkel
says the current plans for the implementation of the reform were
absurd. Such a reform should not be inforced against the people,
he added. Federal Minister of Education Juergen Ruettgers said it
had been a mistake to decide on the reform in small academic circles,
without consulting parliament.

The Chancellor's office demands from all German states to reach an
agreement as soon as possible on the still disputed questions. Only
then the Chancellor's office will take part in talks concerning the
further proceedings in the matter.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-5>
<H1>
Federal Administrative Court to decide on Scientology status next week
</H1>

Berlin. The Federal Administrative Court will decide next week whether
it was correct to revoke Scientology's status as an association based
on the organisation's profit-making activities. In Berlin, the
proceedings started today after an appeal against the decision of the
State of Baden-Wuerttemberg [to revoke the status]. Nine years ago,
Baden-Wuerttemberg has rated a subsidiary of the Scientology organisation
as business, thus revoking its legal capacity as association. In a lower
instance, Scientology had won against the State. In today's 5-hour long
session of the Court, the key question was what status Scientology has.

Yesterday, before the opening of the process, 2,000 Scientology members
demonstrated against the alleged discrimination of the Scientology
organisation in Germany.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-6>
<H1>
Seven per cent less hotel guests in Germany
</H1>

Saarbruecken. In the German tourist industry, the number of hotel guests
has declined further. According to the tourism industry's organisation
"Deutscher Fremdenverkehrsverband", the sector suffers from a seven per
cent decrease of over-night stays in the first half-year, compared to
one year ago. In sanatoriums and health resorts, the number of guests
even went down by almost 30%. Mostly affected by the slump in revenues
are facitilies in the States of Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria. The
industry blames the new stringent attitude of health insurance companies
towards stays at health resorts for the decrease.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-7>
<H1>
Deutsche Telekom to offer lower prices and more services
</H1>

Munich. Deutsche Telekom will respond with lower prices and new services
to the opening of the telecommunications market at the beginning of 1998.
At the trade fair "Systems '97", the member of Deutsche Telekom's
executive board, Mr May announced a new tarif system differentiating
more with respects to certain groups of customers and to usage of
services. There are rumours of a 4.5% rebate for businesses. Deutsche
Telekom also wants to extend its network and to offer new services.
Mr May also opposed rumours that big clients of Deutsche Telekom have
changed to competitors.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-28-8>
<H1>
Stock market: Heavy losses
</H1>

Frankfurt. The stock market crash in the USA and in the Far East has lead
to the biggest slump in German stock prices since 1991. The German stock
market index DAX went down by 8%. The stocks of Siemens, Metro, BMW, Daimler
Benz, Hoechst and Volkswagen were most affected by he crash. Volkswagen
has subsequently postponed its planned stock offering to a yet undetermined
time. There were, however, no panic reactions - experts advice investors
to wait and see.

Federal Finance Minister Theo Waigel said at a meeting in Bonn, the reasons
for the recent turbulences at the stock markets are to be found in Asia. The
fundamental economic data of Germany and of Europe were still very good,
interest rates were still on a low level, and there were no inflationary
tendencies.

