<DOC de-news-1998-08-15-1>
<H1>
The SPD Wants to Repeal Numerous CDU/CSU Measures If They Win the Election
</H1>
The SPD is going on the offensive in their federal election campaign.  In
the Monday editions of "Der Spiegel" and "Focus," one can read how the
Social Democrats want to organize the first 100 days of an SPD-led federal
government.  Should the election on September 27th bring a change of power
at the federal level, the SPD is ready to go into action.  The SPD has
laid down what it sees as the most important goals of a new government in
something thing called the "Take-Off Program."  According to "Focus" and
"Der Spiegel,"  the central points of the 16 page program are a vigorous
employment policy;  innovations in the relations between state, economy
and society; reducing social insecurity; environmental protection; and a
new openness in political and social life.  As far as concrete steps go, a
whole series of resolutions passed by the coalition presently in office
would be reversed.  According to "Der Spiegel," chancellor candidate
Schroeder makes it clear in the program that, immediately upon assuming
office, he would put forward a law to reform the pension system in order
to prevent pension levels from sinking from 70 percent to 64 percent.
Besides that, the recent measures taken concerning sick pay, special
compensations for weather-related work suspensions in the construction
industry, and lay-off protection would all be vacated.  According to Mr.
Muentefering, the SPD Federal Party Chairman, a step toward tax reform is
also foreseen.  The SPD wants to cut the tax burden of the average family
by DM2,500.  But, he continued, the central theme of the Take-Off Program
will be combating unemployment.  To accomplish that, according to "Der
Spiegel," Mr. Schroeder wants to invite the unions and the employers to a
new "Partnership for Jobs".

<DOC de-news-1998-08-15-2>
<H1>
Vacationers Killed in Mudslide
</H1>
Five German vacationers were killed on the Brenner pass freeway by a
gigantic mudslide.  Their cars were buried under tons of rock and masses
of mud.  The debris has completely disrupted traffic.  The Brenner freeway
has been closed, trains are being rerouted.  Clean-up operations are going
faster than expected, however.  The largest deposits of mud and rocks,
including boulders the size of cars, have already been moved off the road,
but most of the lanes were still covered with an ankle-deep layer of mud
as of this afternoon.  Work is also moving quickly on the stretch of train
tracks that runs over the Brenner pass.  The train tracks had been blocked
almost instantly in three place, but test drives have already been
undertaken.  When regular service can resume, however, is still up in the
air.  Until then, there will be several hour delays for all train service
between Germany and Italy.

<P>
The accident claimed five victims.  Two married couples and a
seven-year-old child, all from Germany, were buried under the rocks and
debris.  There was no helping them.  Three other vacationers whose camper
van was standing near the accident were luckier.  When they heard the mass
of stones tumbling into the valley they had the presence of mind to
scramble on top of their vehicle.  The camper sank in the sea of mud, but
the three tourists escaped with light injuries and above all with their
lives.

<P>
The ADAC [German Automobile Association] advises drivers to cancel any
planned trips to Italy until the removal of debris.  It would be a big
improvement if trips could be put off for even a day, since all detour
routes are hopelessly overburdened.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-15-3>
<H1>
Ceremony Celebrating the 750th Anniversary of the Cologne Cathedral
</H1>
The festivities surrounding the 750th anniversary of the Cologne cathedral
started with a pontifical service.  Around 4,000 Catholics assembled for
the ceremony in the Gothic cathedral. It commemorated the laying of the
cornerstone on August 15, 1948.  Among the guests were Chancellor Kohl;
Mr.  Bluem, the Minister of Labor; and Mr. Clement, the Premier of North
Rhine-Westfalia.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-15-4>
<H1>
Campaign Against Serious Accidents by Beginning Drivers
</H1>
Politicians of all parties, transportation policy experts and the police
union all came together to demand additional restrictions on beginning
drivers in the "Koelner Sonntags-Express."  SPD transportation policy
expert Elke Ferner said that too many serious accidents were caused by
beginning drivers.  In her opinion, a complete ban on alcohol and a speed
limit during the probationary period would certainly lead to fewer deaths.
[Note: In Germany there is no general speed limit on most freeways.] The
CSU transportation policy expert Dionys Jobst also supports a 0.00 per
cent blood alcohol limit for the first two years that people have their
licenses.  The Green politician, Gila Altmann, wants changes in driver's
education; a chapter on "Drugs and Speed" should be inserted into the
curriculum.  The police union is also for more severe measures, because
the driving habits of the younger generation are continually getting
worse.  A further sanction that might be considered in the opinion of the
police is a ban on driving on the weekends.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-15-5>
<H1>
Hungarian Grand Prix: Schumacher Starting in 3rd Place
</H1>
Tomorrow morning at the Hungarian Grand Prix, the two Silver Arrows will
start in the first rank.  Mika Hakkinen beat his teammate David Coulthard
to clock the fastest time.  Starting behind them in third place will be
Michael Schumacher.

