<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-1>
<H1>
Abortion pill approved for Germany
</H1>
The approval of the controversial abortion pill Mifegyne,
formerly known as RU 486, has caused a strong argument between
the Catholic church and the German government. President of the
German Conference of Bishops Karl Lehmann criticized that the
classification of Mifegyne turned pregnancy into an illness and
the unborn child into a damage that must be removed. Munich's
Cardinal Wetter stated Mifegyne was not a medication for healing
but a means to kill. Cologne's Cardinal Meissner rejected the
drug as "pill of death" and called the approval a violation of
law that had been forced by public campaigns and by politicians.
Federal Health Minister Andrea Fischer rejected the accusations
and demanded Meissner's apology. Ms. Fischer stated that the
question whether abortions are legal was not the decision of
the approval authority but of the whole society. Family Minister
Christine Bergmann welcomed the drug's approval. The Berlin
Federal Institute for Medication and Medicinal Products had
decided to approve the drug for the German market. According
to the manufacturer, the abortion drug causes something like
a spontaneous miscarriage.

<P>
The opposition parties' reactions to the approval of Mifegyne
varied. Whereas female FDP politicians welcomed the decision,
the deputy president of the CDU/CSU faction Hannelore Roensch
warned of an underestimation of the abortion pill. Since the
drug must be used before the eighth week of pregnancy, the
woman is put under enormous time pressure, said Ms. Roensch.
Bavaria's Social Minister, Ms. Stamm, stated that the approval
of Mifegyne would lead to a terrible trivialization of the
killing of unborn children.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-2>
<H1>
Trittin wants end of nuclear power by 2014
</H1>
Federal Minister for the Environment Juergen Trittin is said
to want to force through an end of nuclear power generation
by 2014, which is ten years earlier than what Economics Minister
Werner Mueller wants. The daily Berliner Zeitung reports further
that, in addition, seven nuclear power plants are to be shut
down before the next federal elections. Trittin wants to limit
the life time of nuclear power plants to 25 years. The newspaper
draws its information from the Environment Minister's draft for a
compromise for the energy agreement talks between government and
power industry. So far, Mr Trittin and the Greens had only said
that the life time of the remaining 19 German nuclear power plants
must be under 30 years. Economics Minister Mueller had suggested
a life time of 35 years. Leading politicians of SPD and
Buendnis90/Greens want to meet once more Wednesday night to agree
on a common policy.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-3>
<H1>
Decline of unemployment not more than seasonal
</H1>
The number of unemployed has declined further. The
Federal Labour Office stated that just under 3.94 million people
or 60'000 less than in May were unemployed in June. Thus, the
unemployment rate decreased from 10.2 to 10.1 percent. Compared
to June 1998, the number of unemployed decreased by about 140'000.
The president of the Federal Labour Office Bernhard Jagoda said
the decrease was seasonal, there was no measurable effect due to
economic growth.

<P>
In Baden-Wuerttemberg just above 311'000 people were without
employment in June, that is 9300 less than in May. The unemployment
rate decreased from 6.4 to 6.2 percent. In Bavaria the rate
decreased even more, to 5.8 percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-4>
<H1>
Third round in "Alliance for Jobs" negotiations
</H1>
Under the supervision of German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder,
representatives of unions, employers and the Federal government
have met for the third round of talks for an "Alliance for Jobs".
Apprenticeships, overtime, low paid jobs and the pensions and
tax reforms will be the subjects of the talks. Especially the reform
projects of the Federal government will attract heavy criticism.
The President of the Confederation of Employers, Mr Hundt has
already announced that he will critically address the
government's corporate tax reform project during the talks.

<P>
Before the talks, unions have demanded concrete results from the
talks, in particular concerning the apprenticeship problem. They
want binding regulations that would provide an apprenticeship
guarantee.

<P>
The Vice-President of the German Confederation of Unions,
Ms Engelen-Kefer said there was still much distrust among the
participants of the talks. She therefore warned against to high
expectations from the meeting.

<P>
The Vice-President of the IG Metall union, Mr Peters called for
a more active role of the Federal government in the "Alliance for
Jobs". Mr Peters said, the government's representatives had to
leave their mediator's position. If the talks did not lead to
concrete results, unions and the government had to find an
agreement [in separate negotiations without employers].

<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-5>
<H1>
CDU starts letter campaign against government's pension reform
</H1>
The Christian Democrats (CDU) have reiterated their criticism
of the government's pension reform project, reproaching the government
with "pension fraud". CDU general-secretary Angela Merkel presented
today a letter by the party's Federal chairman, Wolfgang Schaeuble,
that is supposed to be distributed by local party activists to all
pensioners in the nation. Subject of the letter and of a nation-wide
action day are the allegedly broken election promisses of the SPD/Green
government coalition concerning the pension reform. Ms Merkel said,
the opposition will only be able to approve the project if the
government abandoned plans to increase pensions by the inflation rate
only during the next two years, and not by the average increase of net
wages, as usual. The SPD general-secretary, Mr Scheiner, called the
CDU campaign hypocritical, damaging the general trust in the pensions
system.

<DOC de-news-1999-07-06-7>
<H1>
German Post loses action against private couriers
</H1>
Deutsche Post AG has lost the legal action concerning licences
for letter mail distribution. The Cologne Administrative Court rejected
most of German Post's charges against the responsible regulation
authority. Consequently, letters may be distributed by private companies
even in future. The court ruled that the mailing within one day was
the decisive argument. This was to be regarded as a superior service
which is not covered by the exclusive licence given to German Post
until 2002.

