<DOC de-news-1999-11-27-1>
<H1>
SPD parliamentary leader Gabriel will probably be Minister President
</H1>
The power struggle did not last long. The SPD parliamentary board
nominated parliamentary leader Dietmar Gabriel as their candidate for the
new Minister President elections in Lower Saxony. The parliamentary
faction agreed with the recommendation, thereby allowing Gabriel to
succeed Gerhard Glogowski after the election in mid-December. Glogowski
resigned yesterday after being accused of graft. The newly designated
Minister President of Lower Saxony (Gabriel) won the nomination in the SPD
state parliament conference with 49 votes to his opponent Wolfgang
Buettner's 32 votes. "I am proud of the fact that we had a choice between
two such excellent candidates," stated SPD state leader Bulmahn after the
elections. The designated Minister President, Gabriel, said he had no
doubt that he could continue working with the opposing candidate and said
that he could not do it without Buettner. Gabriel is aware that he faces a
tough task and is also not exactly happy about the way he got into office.
Gabriel had a few choice words for the media in this respect. He feels
that the media have not handled themselves well the past few days.  They
neglected fine points and attacked Mr. Glogowski in unfairly broad
strokes.  Gabriel said that the SPD will probably need a few days to
digest this decision, but it will soon forge ahead with new strength.

<P>
The SPD spent an entire day in Lower Saxony wrestling with suggestions for
a successor as Minister President. In the end the SPD Hanover region and
SPD from Braunschweig faced off against each other: with one region for
Buettner and the other for Gabriel.  Braunschweig and Dietmar Gabriel won
the final decision.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-27-2>
<H1>
CDU party funding scandal: Kohl needs to explain a.s.a.p.
</H1>
Leading CDU politicians are distancing themselves from former Chancellor
Kohl in the party funding scandal. They are demanding that their former
party leader explain himself immediately and completely in regard to the
concealed party finances. The previous CDU Secretary General, Heiner
Geissler, stated in a newspaper interview that it would be disastrous for
the party's image if the truth trickles down to the public little by
little.

<P>
The CDU is continuing to try and limit the political fallout from the
funding scandal. The acting party chairperson, Christian Wulf, declared
that those responsible should face the consequences if secret CDU bank
accounts really exist. Wulf warned his party not to take the scandal
lightly. Wulf says that even if the parties involved really didn't know
about about these arrangements now, they are still responsible for what
happened on their watch.

<P>
Even CDU politicians from Brandenburg and Saxony are demanding that their
former party leader, Helmut Kohl, give an explanation immediately.
According to Volker Ruehe, who was the CDU General Secretary at the time
of the scandal and is now the top candidate for the regional elections in
Schleswig-Holstein, he was not aware of any such bank accounts. On the
other hand, Ruehe's predecessor as General Secretary, Heiner Geissler,
admitted yesterday that the party had such bank accounts at their disposal
where contributions could be deposited in order to circumvent federal
officials. Geissler said in a newspaper interview that he believes that
there were some large financial transactions that Kohl, who was
chairperson at the time, was not aware of. The Bundestag [lower house of
parliament] wants to investigate whether the CDU contravened governmental
party regulations, according to Bundestag president Wolfgang Thierse.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-27-3>
<H1>
SPD Southern regional conference in Nuremberg
</H1>
Over 1000 SPD delegates from Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria are meeting at
the Nuremberg fairgrounds for the SPD Southern regional conference.
Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder spoke at the event, which is taking
place under the motto "Innovation and Fairness". According to Schroeder,
these are the main principles of the Social Democratic government. At the
end of his speech, the Chancellor took questions and comments from party
representatives, especially those from Bavaria, and answered them in
another 20 minute statement. The most critical questions were in regard to
Kosovo and the sale of tanks to Turkey.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-27-4>
<H1>
Salvatorkeller destroyed by fire
</H1>
"The Salavatorkeller is no more". That is how a fire department spokesman
summarized the consequences of a large fire in the tradition-rich Munich
brewery restaurant in the district of Giesing. Several people were injured
in the fire. The fire department was eventually able to extinguish the
fire, but it will take all night to ensure that the fire is completely
extinguished. The authorities suspect arson.

<P>
The fire-fighting teams will probably still be busy at in the burned-out
Salvatorkeller on Nockerberg when the police and fire departments announce
the details of the fire and the results of the investigation Sunday
afternoon.

<P>
According to the preliminary investigations, the fire, which broke out
around 8:30 a.m. in the top floor of the building and completely destroyed
the traditional restaurant and taproom, was set intentionally. A fire had
already broken out at 3:30 a.m. in the Salvatorkeller's kitchen area and
could be quickly extinguished. Six Portuguese Salvatorkeller employees
were overcome by the smoke and had to be admitted into the hospital. The
police department's arson investigators had already concluded their
investigations when a new fire was reported in the top floor. The
approximately 100-meter-long building and the attached hall of an antique
market were completely destroyed in the blaze, which also threatened the
nearby Paulaner brewery office building and its ammonia tanks.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-27-5>
<H1>
Animal rights activists demonstrate at the Bavarian/Czech border
</H1>
Animal rights activists from throughout Germany took to the streets at
sunset at the Bavarian/Czech border. Approximately 2000 people formed a
chain of light and demonstrated against the proposed construction of
chicken farms which would hold a total of one million laying hens.

