<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-1>
<H1>
Continued Protests Against Arrest of Ocalan
</H1>
Protests by Kurds against the arrest of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) leader
Abdullah Ocalan have continued undiminished. In many areas of Germany, police
and border police (Bundesgrenzschutz) guards at threatened buildings were
increased. Turkish establishments are the primary targets of attack by the PKK
members. In Stuttgart, Kurds temporarily occupied the state headquarters of
the Greens; in Berlin, 28 of the 66 Kurds arrested for storming the Israeli
Consulate General appeared in court. Ten of these were charged with
participating in temporarily taking hostages in the consulate building; 18
were charged with disturbing the peace. Israeli security forces shot and
killed three Kurds during the attack yesterday. Yesterday's incidents have
strained relations between Bonn and Jerusalem. Israeli media criticized the
security measures at the consulate as insufficient. A delegation from Israel
has arrived in Germany. They spoke with the Secretary of the Chancellor's
Office, Bodo Hombach, among others. Ocalan has brought charges against the
government in Ankara at the European Human Rights Court.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-2>
<H1>
Foreign Minister Fischer Calls on Russia to Exert Influence in Kosovo
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer called on Russia to exert some
pressure on Yugoslav President Milosevic regarding the Kosovo crisis. The
Russian government should use its connections to prevent an escalation of the
conflict, Fischer said during a discussion with his Russian colleague Ivanov
in Moscow. Ivanov reaffirmed Russia's willingness to send troops to the
region. He said a peace agreement between the Kosovo-Albanians and the Serbs
would be a precondition.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-3>
<H1>
Chancellor Schroeder in Moscow
</H1>
The European Union is holding out the prospect of assistance in economic
reforms to Russia. The EU Ambassador in Moscow, Hahn, said that the European
Union was considering providing expert advisers as well as financial
assistance. After a meeting with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder called Russia the EU's most important partner. The
Chancellor is also visiting Moscow in his capacity as the presiding Council
President of the European Union. Among his delegation are several members of
the Federal Cabinet, business representatives, as well as the President of EU
Commission, Jacques Santer.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-4>
<H1>
3.2% Increase for Metal Industry in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
After reaching a compromise for the metal industry in Baden-Wuerttemberg, it
is still questionable whether the nationwide dispute will also end. The head
negotiator for employers in Northrhine-Westphalia, Martin Kanngiesser, said
that some companies had left the employers' association out of disappointment
over the decision by the arbitrator. He said it would still have to be
explored whether there was still some latitude to negotiate. While the
employers and the union in Bavaria had agreed to adopt the arbitration
results, employers in the Eastern states rejected the results. Union leaders
countered that they had already made concessions, including longer working
hours as well as agreeing to implement the West's agreement a month later in
the new states. Dieter Hundt, President of the Federal Association of German
Employers, spoke of a bitter setback and did not believe the agreement would
serve as an example for other regions. The chairman of the union for the
public service and transportation sector (OeTV), Herbert Mai, said that the
agreement would become the orientation point for other collective bargaining
negotiations. In Boblingen, both sides agreed to a wage increase of 3.2%, a
one-time payment of 1% and a lump-sum payment for January and February in the
amount of 350 DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-5>
<H1>
Finance Committee Passes First Stage of Eco-Tax Reform
</H1>
With votes from the SPD and Alliance90/Greens, the Finance Committee of the
Bundestag passed the first stage of the reform of the ecology tax. The bill,
which will take effect April 1, provides for an increase in the gasoline tax
of 6 Pfennig/liter as well as increases in the price of heating oil, gas and
electricity. The proceeds of the tax are to be applied toward a reduction in
pension contributions. Politicians of the CDU/CSU and the FDP called the bill
a disappointment. The Federation of German Industry (BDI) and the Council of
German Chambers of Commerce (DIHT) protested that the tax burden was too high.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-6>
<H1>
Discussion on Changes for Health Care Reform 2000
</H1>
During a closed-door meeting on health care reform, experts from the SPD and
Alliance90/Greens have apparently cleared up an essential matter. Sources from
the circle of participants in Bonn said that the desired strengthening of the
role of the family doctor will not be accomplished by making changes in the
functioning of patients' microchip cards issued by health insurance companies.
Incentives for consulting family doctors should be looked into instead. A
bonus plan suggested by Health Minister Andrea Fischer (Greens) was rejected
by the AOK insurance company as unfinancible. SPD parliamentary group deputy
chairman Rudolf Dressler had previously called for limiting the number of
visits to specialists by embedding a special code in the microchip card.

<DOC de-news-1999-02-18-7>
<H1>
More Snowfall in the Alps
</H1>
The Alps have again been hit with heavy snowfalls. A 24-year-old woman was
severely injured in an avalanche in the Jura Mountains in France; two other
people are still missing. In the mountains around Bern and in central
Switzerland approximately 100 residents were evacuated because of imminent
danger of avalanches. Numerous towns in the region are completely cut off.
After the recent snowfalls, the Paznau Valley in the Austrian Tyrol was closed
to automobile traffic. The towns Ischgl and Galtuer cannot be reached by car.

