<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-1>
<H1>
Partial wage agreement in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
In the evening, the employers and union representatives have come to a partial
agreement in the negotiations on the subject of job protection in the metal
and electronics industry of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  However, according to
attendees of the talks, no progress was made in the question about sick pay.
Since this morning, negotiations have been going on in Karlsruhe, encompassing
the entire package of sick pay, wage agreements for 1997, part time employment
for older workers, and vacations and Christmas bonuses.  Again, tens of
thousands of workers in the metal industry protested today against cuts in
sick pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-2>
<H1>
Sick pay: A compromise in the steel industry
</H1>
 Late last night, the bargaining parties in the steel industry have
found a consensus in the dispute about sick pay.  According to the compromise,
95,000 workers in the wage districts of North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony,
and Bremen will receive the full 100% of sick pay, without precondition.  This
arrangement runs through the end of February.  Until then, a final solution is
to be found.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-3>
<H1>
Bundestag passes tax law for 1997
</H1>
Overruling Opposition resistance, the Bundestag has passed in Bonn today the
tax law for 1997 and an alteration of the Employment Promotion Law.  Central
points of the former, becoming effective on January 1, are new inheritance and
gift taxes, as well as the abolition of income tax on cash assets.  The reform
of the Employment Promotion Law is expected to save some 1.7 billion DM in the
Federal Labor Office's budget.  Moreover, cuts in salaries and subsidies for
employment-creating measures in the East German States are planned.  However,
there will be additional subsidies to cover indirect wage costs for regular
employments.  The Bundesrat has yet to agree to the bill.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-4>
<H1>
No new jobs despite economic uptrend
</H1>
In October, almost 3.9 million people were reported jobless, and even the
economic growth prognosticated for next year is unlikely to lead to new
hiring, said the vice president of the Federal Labor Office, Klaus Lewen, when
presenting the latest statistics in Nuremberg today.  He cautioned the
government against cutting funds for employment-providing measures,
professional training programs and other forms of assistance.  This would only
aggravate current problems.  He said the economy's recuperation so far is
insufficient to improve the job market.  Although part time jobs have helped
to stabilize overall employment, unemployment rates in Germany have risen
again in October, Lewen added.  He concluded that seasonally adjusted, there
is a sizeable increase: 40,000 - roughly as much as in September.  Unadjusted,
unemployment went up by 18,400 to 3,866,000, the rate remaining at 10.1%,
unchanged from September.  Ten months ago, it had been at 9.2%.  In the course
of this year, 341,000 jobless people were added.  The Federal Labor Office's
budget draft for 1997, due in a few days, will be based on the assumption of
stagnant unemployment figures in the coming year, i.e. at almost 4 million, in
accordance with government guidelines.  Vice President Lewen told the press in
Nuremberg that, regardless of what austerity measures and legislative reforms
are still going to be passed, the Labor Offices will require additional funds
from Bonn.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-5>
<H1>
EU appeals to UN Security Council
</H1>
The European Union has addressed an urgent appeal to the UN Security Council
to make a decision within the next hours regarding military protection for
humanitarian aid to Zaire.  At a special meeting in Brussels, the EU
Development Ministers demanded today that the UN Security Council make all
necessary preparations so that a comprehensive aid mission for the about 1.2
million refugees in East Zaire can begin.  The EU Commissioner for
humanitarian issues, Ms. Bonino, said that everybody is ready, but one cannot
begin with the mission.  Thus far, only France and Spain have pledged
participation in a military protection force for the aid transports.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-07-6>
<H1>
Former SPD Member of Parliament to go to prison
</H1>
 The former Member of Parliament for the SPD, Manfred Schmid, has to
serve a prison sentence because of tax fraud.  The Federal High Court has
rejected an appeal against the verdict found by the Munich Regional Court.
The 60-year-old lawyer of Munich was convicted to 18 months in prison without
parole, because of repeated tax fraud, withholding some 260,000 DM in taxes.

