<DOC de-news-1997-08-23-1>
<H1>
Great Britain to comply absolutely with export ban on beef
</H1>
The Federal Ministry of Health has called for the EU-
commission to implement the strict observance of the export ban of
beef in Great Britain.  A spokeswoman of the Health Ministry stated
criticism of the fact that the export ban, which had been
established in 1996 because of the BSE-scandal, has only been
implemented since August 1, 1997 in Great Britain.  The chairperson
of the BSE investigation committee of the European Parliament, Mr.
Boege, blamed slipshod controls for the fact that more than 600
tons of British beef illegally arrived in  Germany.  Mr. Boege
called on grocery chains and manufacturers to reconsider their
purchasing policies. In the meantime, the British newspaper DAILY
TELEGRAPH published a report issued by British veterinarians
according to which the statistics of the EU-countries do not
reflect the true extent of mad cow disease BSE.  The report claims
that the number of fatal BSE outbreaks in cattle exported from
Great Britain is actually six times as high as officially reported.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-23-2>
<H1>
Mr. Waigel continues to count on reorganization of cabinet
</H1>
 According to Federal Minister for Finance Waigel, he is
counting on a cabinet reorganization - which he has called forbefore the parliamentary elections of 1998.  This is reported
by the magazine FOCUS.  Mr. Waigel reportedly stated that he was
sure that Federal Chancellor Kohl would not disappoint him in this
expectation.  On the other hand, CDU-Secretary General Hintze once
again stated that there was no chance of such a reorganization.
Mr. Hintze told the Sunday edition of the FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE
that Mr. Kohl did not have any intention of reorganizing the
cabinet.  The discussion of personnel initiated by Federal Minister
for Finance Waigel was absolutely superfluous, he stated.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-23-3>
<H1>
Additional shortfall of tax revenues in billions
</H1>
The German Institute for Economic Research expects an additional
shortfall in tax revenue during the current year amounting to 10 to
15 billion.  The report states that a shortfall of at least 15
billion should be included in calculations.  The reason the
Institute finds for this is that economic growth in the West at 2
per cent and in the East at 1.5 per cent is lower than the
government predicted.  In case the federal government and the
states can not agree on  clear net tax relief measures, the
economic researchers recommend the total abolition of the
solidarity surtax.  This cut would result in  approximately 30
billion in tax relief.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-23-4>
<H1>
Limitation on admission to practice teaching to be modified
</H1>
 The minister for cultural affairs of Baden-
Wuerttemberg, Ms. Schavan, wants to change the procedure for
limiting admission of student teaching candidates.  Ms. Schavan
told the SUEDDEUTSCHE RUNDFUNK that the opportunity to complete
their education in a foreseeable amount of time would have to be
given to the approximately 1 000 rejected candidates for student
teaching in academic high schools and vocational schools.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-23-5>
<H1>
President Herzog officially opens the new Adlon Hotel in Berlin
</H1>
 During an official ceremony, the new Adlon Hotel on
Pariser Platz was opened by President Herzog.  Afterwards, Mr.
Herzog accompanied by Berlin's mayor, Mr. Diepgen, inspected the
435 million mark rebuilding of the legendary first Adlon Hotel
on the original site.  The Adlon had been destroyed during a fire
in 1945.  The Hotel which is run by the Kempinski Company has 337
rooms and two especially secured presidential suites.  In the
future, it will also serve as an unofficial guesthouse for the
federal government.

