<DOC de-news-1998-08-09-1>
<H1>
Ceremony for 50th anniversary of constitution convention
</H1>
According to German President Roman Herzog and Bavaria's
State Premier Edmund Stoiber, the areas of jurisdiction between the federal
government and the states should be redistributed. During a ceremony
celebrating the 50th anniversary of the constitution convention in
Herrenchiemsee, Mr. Herzog was critical of the fact that the German states
have lost many rights in the areas of legislature and the judiciary to
federal government. Mr. Stoiber repeated his demand to reform fiscal
federalism and said he advocated a new constitution convention. In 1948,
constitution experts of the three Western Allies had met in Herrenchiemsee
and prepare what later became the constitution of the Federal Republic of
Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-09-2>
<H1>
Schroeder would like to reduce size of cabinet
</H1>
SPD (Social Democratic Party) Candidate for the Chancellorship
Gerhard Schroeder wants to reduce the size of the cabinet significantly in
case of an SPD victory in the general elections. According to press reports
he also plans to appoint the SPD expert for foreign politics and security,
Mr. Verheugen, as Minister of Defense. The precondition for this would
however be that the SPD Parliamentary Party Leader, Rudolph Scharping, does
not claim that job. The Green Party would like at least three minister
posts. It is planned that their parliamentary Party Leader, Joschka Fischer
be appointed as Foreign Minister. The ministries for Education and Research
as well as Environment will also be allocated to Green Party politicians.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-09-3>
<H1>
Greenpeace demands stricter ozone limits
</H1>
Greenpeace has demanded stricter ozone limits. In the opinion of
the environmental organization, driving should be forbidden starting an
ozone concentration of 180 micrograms per cubic meter of air. Greenpeace
also says that the limit should be 120 micrograms for cars without
catalytic converters. They point out that high ozone concentrations are
particularly dangerous for children. The current summer smog ordinance
imposes driving prohibitions only if at least three observatories in
Germany measure 240 micrograms of ozone or more per cubic meter of air, and
similarly high values are expected for the following day. That practically
hardly ever happens.

