<DOC de-news-1999-06-13-1>
<H1>
Entry of KFOR troops into Kosovo largely smooth
</H1>
The entry of the international peace force, KFOR, into Kosovo
has been proceeding more or less according to plan. Soldiers from the
United States, Great Britain, France, Italy, and Norway began moving into
the southern Serbian province yesterday. The first troops reached the
Kosovar capital of Pristina this morning.
The first sizable German Army contingent crossed the border from Albania
at about noon today. That contingent was preceded by a smaller group sent
to prepare a base for the main host. That command group was met by
thousands of cheering refugees as it passed through the northern Albanian
border town of Kukes, on its way into Kosovo. Kosovar children held up
signs saying "Thank you, NATO"; an 8-year-old boy shouted out "I'm waiting
for NATO to take me home", expressing the sentiments of all the refugees,
who hope to return to Kosovo quickly. Originally, the first German
soldiers were supposed to enter Kosvo in the early morning, but technical
problems delayed their departure for several hours. 780 German personnel
and 262 vehicles were moved over the weekend, from Tetovo in Macedonia to
Kukes in northern Albania, from which position the troops will move
successively into Kosovo. There, their destination is the city of Prizren,
40 kilometres from the border, and primary base of operations for the
German forces. A German press officer said that their first task would be
to establish a presence, in order to fill the power vacuum left behind by
the withdrawing Serbian soldiers.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-13-2>
<H1>
German soldiers involved in exchange of gunfire
</H1>
German and Serbian soldiers have exchanged gunfire in the Kosovar city of
Prizren. According to the Foreign Office in Bonn, one German soldier was
slightly injured when a bullet grazed his arm. Apparently, an intersection
secured by three German tanks was approached by two men in a civilian
vehicle who began shooting at people on the street through the vehicle
window. The German soldiers returned the fire, killing the driver and
seriously injuring the other man.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-13-3>
<H1>
European Parliament elections
</H1>
Elections for the European Parliament began this morning
in Germany and ten other EU countries. German voting stations were open
between 8 am and 9 pm. Approximately 60 million Germans were eligible to
vote on 99 seats in the European Parliament. The election is being
considered the first country-wide test of support for the SPD-Green
coalition since the last federal election.
Ten other countries were also voting today; Great Britain, Denmark, the
Netherlands, and Ireland already held their European Parliament elections
last week. The counting of the votes commenced only after the last voting
station in the EU closed at 10 pm. In all, almost 300 million Europeans
voted on 626 seats in the European Parliament.

