<DOC de-news-1998-09-30-1>
<H1>
Schroeder meets with Chirac
</H1>
Gerhard Schroeder, future Chancellor of Germany, has had preliminary
talks with the French government regarding a common policy on Europe.
Particularly delicate questions will be given to bilateral working
groups for clarification.  After meeting with French President Chirac
and Prime Minister Jospin, Schroeder said he was keen to determine
what points were that they all agreed on.  The crucial corrections to
Germany's previous European policies would, Schroeder explained, be in
the area of employment.  Chirac also spoke after the meeting, saying
this was the beginning of a long and hopefully fruitful relationship.
Schroeder is always welcome in Paris, he said.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-30-2>
<H1>
Speculation over assignment of ministry posts
</H1>
Prior to the beginning of official negotiations toward a coalition,
the SPD and Green parties are surveying the possibilities for
assignment of Ministry positions.  According to the "Deutschlandfunk"
radio service, Hombach (SPD), the Minister of Economics from North
Rhine-Westphalia may become the new head of the Chancellor's Office.
A report in the Berlin newspaper "Tageszeitung" said the negotiating
committee for the Green party has let it be known that they are
interested in the Foreign Affairs and Environmental ministries.  Those
positions would be filled by Joschka Fischer and Juergen Trittin.
Incoming Chancellor Schroeder, during an interview with the news
journal "Die Woche", said he could conceive of Joschka Fischer as
Foreign Minister.  Tomorrow, experts from both parties will prepare
the way for negotiations on Friday.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-30-3>
<H1>
Resignations in the CDU leadership
</H1>
Deputy Federal Chair of the CDU, Bergner, says he will no longer be a
candidate for membership the executive council of the party.  He
announced his decision from Magdeburg, saying he wants to take
responsibility for his part in the electoral defeat.  Bergner referred
to a statement of the Saxony-Anhalt regional party council which
suggested outgoing Federal Minister of Environment Merkel as an east
German representative to the executive council.  Secretary-General
Hintze will also resign his office at the November party congress of
the Christian Democrats. Deputy CDU/CSU parliamentary faction leader
Geissler told the radio service "Deutschlandfunk" this was the right
move.  However, he said, one cannot blame Hintze alone for the errors.
Geissler stressed that it was not just that a couple election posters
didn't work out, but rather questions of political orientation that
tipped the scale.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-30-4>
<H1>
Morsleben: no new waste storage for now
</H1>
No more nuclear waste is to be transported to Germany's only disposal
site for light and moderately radioactive refuse until further notice.
 A spokesperson for the Nuclear Protection Agency told the DPA press
agency that a general order to stop accepting material had been
issued.  This was in reaction to a provisional order by the
Administrative High Court of Magdeburg.  The judges forbade storage in
a section of the dump, basing their decision on the lack of an
operational permit.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-30-5>
<H1>
German troops to support possible NATO action in Kosovo
</H1>
According to eye-witness reports, Serbian units have killed at least
13 people as part of a further massacre in Kosovo.  Soldiers
surrounded a group of refugees in the region of Golubovac (sp?), and
subsequently shot all of the male refugees.  Meanwhile from New York,
UN Secretary- General Annan condemned the massacre in the Drenitza
(sp?)  region that had been reported yesterday.  In addition he
condemned Yugoslav Foreign Minister Jovanovic who disputed the
occurrences.  Great Britain called for an emergency meeting of the
Security Council tomorrow on account of the massacres.  In addition,
British Foreign Minister Cook threatened Yugoslavia with a NATO
military strike.  The USA called for an emergency meeting of the
Balkans Contact Group.  From Bonn, the outgoing government of
Chancellor Kohl decided to support a possible NATO military deployment
into Kosovo with 14 Tornado combat aircraft and 500 troops.  The SPD
has indicated that it agrees with this move.

