<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-1>
<H1>
SPD leaders call on party to close ranks
</H1>
In the wake of SPD ex-chairman Lafontaine's resignation,bickering
over personnel and policy questions within the party are on a
rampage. Left-wingers are bracing against what they call a jump toward
the right and calling for the sacking of Schroeder's chief of staff
Hombach. Cabinet ministers and party leaders, on the other hand
are extending support to Hombach.
Four days after the spectacular vanishing act of their chairman, Social
Democrats try to put up a brave show of unity. They especially demand
an immediate stop to quarrels about personnel matters and demands
of resignation, never mind who be the target. Vice-Chairman Thierse
told journalists that in a leadership meeting today everybody agreed
that the SPD being the SPD, it is a party that will always be prone to
programmatic haggling and never be streamlined to go along with
cabinet and chancellor in unison wherever they want to lead.
Thierse said, "We expressly call on party members to show a front
as united as possible and stop voicing nonsensical criticism of
leaders, calls for resignations, and looking for culprits. We have
a clear mandate from the voters, that has not changed."
Thierse mentioned educational policy, reforms and ecological
renewal. The former chairman's resignation from all offices he
held had been respectfully acknowledged. The statement he
issued yesterday had not been discussed during the meeting.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-2>
<H1>
Schroeder wants financial policies in accord with EU concepts
</H1>
After finance minister Lafontaine's resignation, Schroeder wants to
form the Bonn coalition's financial policies along lines worked out
with EU partners. Beginning a one week trip through EU member
countries in his quality of acting president of the European Council,
the chancellor said in Copenhague that it would quickly become
evident that Germany, as far as international financial policy is
concerned, would be navigating within the convoy of EU concepts.
The course will be adjusted to comply with the European line,
Schroeder stressed.
Asked about Lafontaine's resignation, he said that had been the
former minister's personal decision. Later, in Stockholm and
Helsinki, while explaining plans for reforming the EU, he stated
that Lafontaine's resignation would not bring about any change
in the timetable for the German chairmanship period which will
run unto the end of June.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-3>
<H1>
Federal finance ministry rejects DaimlerChrysler criticism
</H1>
The federal ministry for finance rejected criticism of tax reform plans
by the DaimlerChrysler corporation. Daimler finance manager Gens,
in a letter addressed to chancellor Schroeder, had called the planned
tax reform "hostile to the economy". The Bonn ministry, according
to spokesman Albich, had been rather surprised by the letter's terms,
seeing that the corporation was not exactly known as an outstanding
taxpayer. Due to a huge loss carryover of tens of billions of DM,
DaimlerChrysler had not been paying taxes ever since 1995.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-4>
<H1>
EU-commission in very hot water after inquiry board report
</H1>
The inquiry board, in its report about fraud and nepotism, has levelled
grave incriminations against the EU commission. A board of experts
named by the European parliament found that administration and
finances within the commission had spun out of control. As much as
individual commissioners, the body as a whole bore the political
responsibility for fraud, dihonesty and mismanagement within its
departments. German commissioner Ms. Wulf-Matthies got herself
a reprimand.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-5>
<H1>
Regulating body denies German Telekom's price reduction
</H1>
German Telekom's plans to reduce its local billing fees between 9 p.m.
and 6 a.m. to 3 Pfennig per minute have been rejected. According to
the regulating body, this price would not be sufficient to cover the
costs and would, therefore, fall into the dumping category.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-6>
<H1>
Trial opened against blackmailer in Schlecker case
</H1>
In the trial against the blackmailer of the pharmaceutical company
Schlecker, the attorney general's office asked for long prison
sentences. The office demanded a prison sentence of 14 years and 6
months for the two main defendants and 10 years for the third defendant. The defense asked for significantly lower sentences and
stressed that the defendants had pleaded guilty. The two principal
offenders have been accused of eight holdups, 3 of which involved
taking hostages. 10 more holdups are more than 20 years old and,
therefore, have come under the statue of limitations.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-15-7>
<H1>
Woman accused of embezzling millions extradicted to Germany
</H1>
Swiss police extradicted a woman who has been accused of embezzling
millions. According to the German Border Patrol, the 53-year-old
woman was handed over to German authorities in Constance today.
Based on the investigations in Munich, the woman is said to have
promised capital investors, among other things, returns of 120%
per year. She is said to have caused damages totaling 5.8 million
DM in 85 cases. The woman was commited to trial today.

