<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-1>
<H1>
Germany to join in sending advisors to Albania
</H1>
The European Union will not be sending troops to Albania to restore law
and order, despite the Albanian government's request to do so. This
decision was taken by the EU foreign ministers at Apeldoorn today.
However, the EU does not want to abandon Albania and is planning to send
a group of advisors to assist in reconstructing the police force and the
army. The group of experts will be accompanied by their own security
force. The number of experts and the size of the security force to
accompany them has not, as yet, been established. The EU wants two
conditions to be fulfilled before going ahead with the mission; firstly,
the Albanian government has to support the plan, and secondly, the United
Nations have to approve the proposed mission.

<P>
German Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, announced in Apeldoorn that
German experts will also be taking part in the mission to Albania but
that German soldiers will not be part of the accompanying security force.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-2>
<H1>
Waigel counts on resuming tax-reform talks with the SPD this week
</H1>
The Federal Minister of Finance, Theo Waigel, said on German Television's
Second Program that he was of the opinion that the tax-reform talks
between the governing coalition and the Social Democrats (SPD) will be
resumed this week. Mr Waigel also indicated his willingness to make
compromises regarding the taxation of bonus payments for working on
public holidays and weekends. He mentioned that a phased system could be
possible here. He also said that there were other points where
compromises were possible. Mr Waigel stressed, however, that it was
important for the economy that tax-reform decisions be reached in the
first half of this year. The parliamentary party leader of the SPD, Rudolf
Scharping, said in a newspaper interview that he now foresees a good
opportunity for a new consensus to be reached between the parties after
the compromises reached in the question of coal-mining subsidies.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-3>
<H1>
DGB welcomes German government's investment program
</H1>
The German Federation of Unions (DGB) has described the German
government's investment program of 25 billion marks as a wise signal. A
member of the DGB board said that it was time that the German government
abandoned their economic policy which had thus far done little for
creating jobs and adopted a policy which will be positive for the
economy. He continued, however, that this program was not
sufficient. The DGB is of the opinion that even more money has to be
invested in expanding transportation systems and telecommunications.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-4>
<H1>
Memorial centre for the persecution of the Gypsies
</H1>
A documentation and cultural centre to commemorate the persecution of the
Sinti and Roma by Nazi was opened in Heidelberg today. The
centre's most important task, according to Romani Rose, the Chairman of the
Central Committee for Gypsies, is to serve as a reminder and a memorial
whose doors are to be open to all those who are present-day victims of
persecution. Rita Suessmuth, president of the Bundestag (lower house of
parliament), stressed that we should not claim that only a few people were
responsible for the mass murder of a half a million Gypsies during the
Third Reich. She said that the anthropologists, the legal profession,
doctors and government officials who did not care about anything other than
making sure that the deportation trains departed on time are also to blame.
Even in the 1950s judgements were reached which would not be considered
constitutional today. The German President himself, Roman Herzog, did not
deny that our society still has a difficult time dealing with minorities.
Mr Herzog said that "I hope that the Centre will help us to give up the
reserve between each other and encourage the consciousness that Gypsies are
part of us and our culture".

<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-5>
<H1>
Berlin plans to start deporting Bosnian refugees after Easter
</H1>
The Senator of the Interior, Mr Schoenbohm, said that large numbers
of Bosnian refugees will be deported after Easter. The CDU politician
plans to use charter flights to transport 6000 refugees back to Bosnia by
the end of the year. Berlin hopes to save a half a billion marks by the
deportation of the refugees.

<DOC de-news-1997-03-16-6>
<H1>
Long delays at Polish border due to strike of Polish customs officers
</H1>
Due to a go-slow strike of Polish customs officers there have been long
delays
at the border posts between Germany and Poland. The customs officers, who
are striking for higher wages, plan to resume normal duties by tomorrow.

