<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-1>
<H1>
SPD and Greens reach agreement on dual nationality
</H1>
The SPD and the Greens have reached an agreement on the question of
the reform of nationality law during their discussions on the
formation of a coalition government. Herta Daeubler-Gmelin, who is to
become Minister of Justice in the new government, announced that it
was agreed that foreign national who were born in Germany will be
eligible for dual nationality if one of their parents was also born in
Germany or arrived in the country before their 14th birthday. It was
also announced that the period of time during which a foreign national
has to live in Germany before they can apply for German nationality is
to be cut from 15 to 8 years. Kerstin Mueller, the spokesperson for
the Greens' Bundestag parliamentary party, described the agreement as
a great success which will ensure that the second generation of
foreign nationals who are living in Germany will have the same rights
as other Germans.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-2>
<H1>
Key points of SPD-Green coalition contract
</H1>
In their discussion on the formation of a coalition, the SPD and the
Greens have agreed that their government will enact a law to make it
illegal for parents, or others involved in the upbringing of minors,
to smack or use any other violence against the children in their care.
Both parties agreed that this was a necessary step to reduce violence
against children. Also, in a drugs policy initiative, support was
announced for pilot schemes which involve the controlled distribution
of drugs. Agreement was also reached on questions of policy regarding
political asylum, the fight against crime, and on giving homosexual
couples the same the legal status as married partners. Jost Stollman,
who is due to be the Minister of Economics in the new government, was
reported in the 'Sueddeutsche Zeitung' newspaper to have threatened
that he will not take up the post if important aspects of the
Ministry's responsibilities are removed.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-3>
<H1>
PDS to get another seat in Bundestag
</H1>
The PDS is to receive one more seat in the new Bundestag than was
thought up till now. This will mean that the FDP will lose one of its
seats, giving the PDS 36 seats and the FDP only 43. The head of the
Federal Election Office, Johann Hahlen, announced the correction as he
officially declared the final results of the Bundestag election; it
was necessary because of a mistake in the counting of votes in
Brandenburg, where 6450 valid party-list votes had not been counted.
The new PDS seat is to be taken up by Heinrich Fink, the former
Principal of Humboldt University, although it is possible that the FDP
will dispute the new official result.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-4>
<H1>
Pension contributions may be raised next year
</H1>
The German Pension Insurers' Association has advised that the rates
for contributions to legally-required pension insurance schemes may
well rise next year, despite the fact that current plans foresee a
lowering of rates. The current economic crisis in Asia means that
projections for further economic growth will probably have to be
revised downwards. The Association called on the new government to set
the rates for 1999 as soon as possible; it is currently planned that
rates will be cut to 20.2% for 1999. The Association's figures predict
that, by the end of the present year, the pension insurance agencies
will be suffering from a deficit of around DM 4.7 billion.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-5>
<H1>
Biedenkopf: CDU-Green coalitions will soon be thinkable
</H1>
In an interview with 'Stern' magazine, Kurt Biedenkopf, the Prime
Minister of Saxony, has said that he believes that coalitions between
the CDU and the Greens will be possible in the foreseeable future. He
said that within four years, the SPD will have domesticated the Greens
into a liberal ecological party. He continued, saying that the Greens
were already closer to the CDU on some issues than the SPD, for
example on the question of tax reform. Also, he said, the independence
of the individual was more important for the Greens than it was for
the 'Lafontaine' wing of the SPD.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-6>
<H1>
Employment agreement between unions and German Railways
</H1>
German Railways has agreed with trade unions that it will not announce
any new redundancies until the end of 2002. In exchange, the unions
agreed to discuss the introduction of a greater degree of employee
flexibility in the process of reform of the railways. Johannes
Ludewig, the head of German Railways, has said that he is happy with
this result, as, he said, increased competitiveness demanded
flexibility in salaries. The unions described this first employment
agreement since the Bundestag elections as a sign for political
change. The current employment pact between unions and management runs
until the end of this year.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-14-7>
<H1>
Editor's note on markets information
</H1>
Stock market and currency information are unfortunately unavailable
today, due to technical difficulties. Thank you for your
understanding.

