<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-1>
<H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg examining public service sick time
</H1>
Sick state employees can also expect to be checked up on.
According to the Stuttgarter Zeitung newspaper, Baden-Wurttemberg is the
first state to be examining its 270,000 public service employees' use of
sick leave.
Initial results are already in. It has been found that in 1995, sick leave
times in Baden-Wurttemberg's public service were well below the average in
the private sector. Within the public service, officials have been found
to take less sick time off than other employees.
Yesterday the federal cabinet decided that, in the future, federal
officials and employees will have to be able to show a doctor's note
beginning with the first sick day, and that those who are frequently off
sick will be subject to inspection visits to verify that they are home
sick.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-2>
<H1>
Body of missing girl, Ramona, found
</H1>
Ten-year-old Ramona, from the state of Thuringia, missing since
August, has been found dead. Police discovered the girl's body in a
forested area in the region around Eisenach, where she had presumably lain
for some time.
The initial assessment of investigators is that she was murdered. The
search of the area was initiated when a hiker found the girl's schoolbag
Monday evening.
There may be a connection between the recent killing of Kim, from Lower
Saxony, and this murder of Ramona, from Thuringia, both 10 years old.
Police and the public prosecutor's office announced today in Jena that in
both cases a dark-coloured BMW is being sought. A vehicle fitting that
description was seen in Jena in the middle of last August, when Ramona
disappeared.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-3>
<H1>
New lead in the search for Kim's killers
</H1>
An employee at an autobahn rest stop claims to have seen the
suspected killers of Kim Kerkow last night. The special commission
investigating the case announced that the porter at a motel on autobahn A3
in the region of Huenxe in North Rhine-Westphalia had said that the
suspect being sought, together with a Dutch-speaking passenger wanted to
check in for the night. He said that when he gave them a form to fill out,
which included a space for a license plate number, the men hurried back to
their car - a black BMW - and took off, with headlights unlit.
In connection with the murder of 10-year-old Kim, police are looking for 2
men who are on the lam in a stolen BMW. One of the men, according to a
witness, speaks Dutch.
This afternoon, the police in Tauberbischoffsheim announced that a witness
had seen the target vehicle on autobahn A81 between Wurzburg and
Heilbronn.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-4>
<H1>
Gysi threatens to resign
</H1>
The chairman of the PDS parliamentary group, Gysi, has threatened
his party with his resignation. He said that if the PDS did not adopt a
course in the direction of the SPD and the Green Party, he would step down
from his office after the party congress this weekend in Schwerin.
Speaking to the news magazine Stern, Gysi also called on his party to give
up its East German focus.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-5>
<H1>
1996 inflation rate lowest since reunification
</H1>
Last year the rate of inflation in Germany reached its lowest
value since reunification. The cost of living rose only 1.5 percent in
1996. According to the federal statistics office, that was 0.3 percent
lower than the year before. The highest overall inflation rate for a
unified Germany occurred in 1992, when it was 5.1 percent. In former West
German areas, last year's rate was below the average; in former East
Germany it was higher, largely due to rent increases.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-6>
<H1>
Final analysis for 1996 budget presented
</H1>
On a federal level, Germany ran up a deficit of 78.3 billion marks
last year. That is 18.4 billion more than the budget reckoned with, and 28
billion more than last year. Finance Minister Waigel announced the numbers
in presenting his final analysis of the 1996 budget.
In total, the federation spent 455.6 billion marks. Tax income, at almost
339 billion marks, fell 12.6 billion short of expectations.
The total federal deficit amounts to approximately 3.9 percent of gross
domestic product. With those numbers, Germany could not fulfill the
qualifications for the European monetary union, as the Maastricht Treaty
calls for a maximum running deficit of 3 percent.
Waigel blamed weak economic activity for the unfavourable development of
the deficit.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-7>
<H1>
Debate over developments in unemployment
</H1>
The Opposition has reproached the government as being completely
inefficacious in the fight against unemployment. Alliance 90/Green member
of parliament Beck, during a special sitting of the bundestag, said that
despite an economic upturn and drastic savings measures, the number of
unemployed had not sunk, but rather climbed to record levels. He said that
that showed that growth alone did not result in jobs; rather, it was
necessary to divide up the available work more fairly.
The vice-chairman of the SPD parliamentary group, Fuchs, blamed Employment
Minister Bluem for saying exactly that for 15 years without achieving
anything in that regard.
Bluem defended the coalition's policies, while complaining that many of
their plans had been obstructed by an SPD blockade in the bundesrat. He
said that the goal of halving the unemployment rate by the year 2000 was
only possible if everyone did their part - for which reason he favoured an
"Alliance for Employment".

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-8>
<H1>
Mad cow disease cost German farmers a lot in 1996
</H1>
Mad cow disease has cost German farmers losses of 750 million
marks. At the opening of International Green Week in Berlin, the president
of the German Farmers' Association, Heeremann, said that the massive
decline in the consumption of beef had slowed down, but levels were still
expected to be about 10 percent lower for 1997. He said that without
consumer acceptance, there could be no food production.
Genetic technology will also be a focus at the 10-day trade show.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-9>
<H1>
Feds could back out of Transrapid project
</H1>
The federal government is now allowing the possibility that it could
withdraw from the controversial magnetic high-speed rail project
Transrapid. In an interim report to the bundestag transportation
committee, Transportation Minister Wissmann emphasized that the government
was still very interested in the building of a high-speed rail link
between Berlin and Hamburg, but it was not a case of "Transrapid at any
price".
Government and industry want to share the costs. Wissmann said, however,
that the government will not let industry dictate any prices to it.
He said that if the project turned out to be uneconomical, the work on it
would stop. The results of a study of the project's economic viability are
expected to be presented in 2 or 3 months.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-10>
<H1>
Lufthansa admonished for inflated ticket prices
</H1>
The German airline, Lufthansa, has been taken to task by the
federal monopolies commission for inflated ticket prices on flights
between Frankfurt and Berlin. The commission said that the airline charged
25-30 percent more for that flight than on comparable routes.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-11>
<H1>
Discussion of the business trip affair
</H1>
Three questions remain in the so-called business trip affair
involving Bundestag President Suessmuth, according to the SPD.
Parliamentary secretary for that party, Struck, referring to a report
issued by Bundestag Vice-president Klose, said that in one case the
question was whether Suessmuth could not have taken a regularly scheduled
airline flight, instead of a special military one. Two other flights
abroad which she took, Struck said, could possibly have been avoided
altogether.
An all-party parliamentary advisory committee is to discuss Klose's report
tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-12>
<H1>
Spectacular bank robbery in Offenburg
</H1>
Bank robbers made off with a million marks in a spectacular
hold-up in Offenburg. The robbers got away in a helicopter.
According to the police, the robbery unfolded as follows:
One man threatened the director of the Offenburg Sparkasse bank with a
sub-machine gun, forcing him to hand over 1 million marks. Using a
cellular phone, the robber contacted his accomplice, who landed a
helicopter on the roof of the bank. The robber climbed in, and the
helicopter flew off, in a southerly direction.
Police said the helicopter's pilot had evidently been abducted by the
robber's accomplice ahead of time. The pilot was released in a forested
area near Forchheim by Karlsruhe after the escape. There are no leads in
the search for the robbers. The police have indicated that the robber had
made an appointment to meet with the bank director.
A large-scale manhunt has been initiated.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-13>
<H1>
Tennis
</H1>
Steffi Graf has reached the third round in the Australian Open.
She beat the Latvian Larisa Neiland with sets of 7:5 and 6:2.
In the Grand Slam Tournament, Marketa Kochta and Bernd Karbacher, both
from Munich, as well as Karsten Braasch of Oberhausen, also advanced.
Wiltrud Probst and Michael Stich of Heidelberg have been knocked out;
Stich lost to Andrei Medvedev in five sets.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-15-14>
<H1>
On our own behalf: DE-NEWS' second anniversary
</H1>
DE-NEWS celebrates its second anniversary today. For two years the
mailing-list-based German news service, DE-NEWS, has been translating the
daily German-language editions of its big sister, GermNews, into English,
making it available to a wider circle of readers. Presently, DE-NEWS is
read in 41 countries. As with GermNews, those who produce DE-NEWS do so on
a strictly voluntary basis.
<P>
At this time, we are again looking for committed new colleagues to
strengthen our team of translators. Anyone interested is invited to
contact us at our listserv address DE-NEWS@listserv.gmd.de for more
information.
Requirements are: speaking English and German, as well as being able to
translate an average of one edition every 2 weeks.

