<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-1>
<H1>
Schroeder wants thorough investigation of CDU donations affair
</H1>
SPD leader and federal chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has called for a
thorough investigation of the affair concerning party donations made to the
CDU. The Bundestag's investigation committee must determine whether further
secret bank accounts exist, and where the money deposited in the secret
accounts came from. So said Schroeder on ZDF television today.
Meanwhile, the secretary-general for the Schleswig-Holstein branch of the
CDU, Johann Wadephul, admitted that the CDU-North also received payments via
trust accounts. He told NDR radio that, besides the 300,000 D-Marks already
made public, several further payments of 50,000-60,000 D-Marks each were
funneled to the state organization.
Bundestag President Wolfgang Thierse, in the meantime, has pointed out that
the legal consequences of the affair may be further-reaching than previously
discussed. He said he would have to revoke financing approval for the CDU,
worth millions of D-Marks, if it was issued under false pretences.
[Political parties in Germany receive federal support funds according to a
complicated procedure; the idea behind this method of party financing is to
minimize the dependence of the parties on outside interests which may expect
influence in exchange for financial support. -EJB] Thierse announced an
immediate re-assessment. Under-the-table donations, when uncovered, result
in the withdrawal of federal support funds for a party, in double the amount
of the illicit donations.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-2>
<H1>
Schreiber: Many high-ranking contacts within CDU/CSU
</H1>
The controversial arms dealer Karlheinz Schreiber has stated that he had
contact with many of the top politicians in the CDU and CSU. In an interview
with "Die Welt" newspaper, Schreiber said that his long connection with the
CDU/CSU did not exclusively involve former CDU treasurer Walther Leisler
Kiep, but also former Chancellor Helmut Kohl, as well as Wolfgang Schaeuble,
Volker Ruehe, and current CSU leader Edmund Stoiber. Schreiber said that if
CDU/CSU members were now suggesting that only Kiep dealt with him, that was
simply not true.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-3>
<H1>
Scharping wants extensive reform of armed forces
</H1>
Federal Defence Minister Rudolf Scharping wants to create a brand new
Bundeswehr (armed forces) by means of sweeping reforms beginning early in
the year 2000. Speaking to an audience of high-ranking officers, Scharping
announced that the Bundeswehr would be given a more flexible structure with
small, manoeuvrable units. He said that compulsory military service for
young men would remain in place, but the length of that compulsory service
could be "made more flexible".
American Defence Minster William Cohen called for Germany to spend more
money on defence. The Opposition attacked Chancellor Schroeder in the
Bundestag for his money-saving cuts to the Bundeswehr. FDP member Guenther
Nolting said the cuts were not thought out.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-4>
<H1>
Cabinet approves basis of administrative modernization plan
</H1>
Federal Internal Affairs Minister Otto Schily has proposed a far-reaching
set of reforms, under the title of "Modern State - Modern Administration",
to make the public administration more flexible and efficient. The federal
cabinet today approved 38 of the modernization projects. The core of the
reforms include: dismantling bureaucracy, strengthening personal
responsibility, and increasing competition between different administrative
authorities. In addition, periodic assessments and economic management are
to be introduced to public administration.
The cabinet also approved the establishment of a Permanent International
Court to punish human rights violations.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-5>
<H1>
Cabinet approves action plan on violence against women
</H1>
The federal cabinet today approved an action plan to combat violence against
women. The emphasis of the plan is better legal protection of the victims.
According to the Federal Minister for Families, Christine Bergmann, one
woman out of three in Germany suffers violence at home, and one out of seven
has already fallen victim to sexual violence.
In the same cabinet meeting, the federal government also approved continuing
its emergency program to fight youth unemployment.
In addition, it decided to update its stability program: next year's deficit
will be reduced to 1.25 percent of GDP, rather than the previously planned 2
percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-6>
<H1>
Nuclear withdrawal dispute deadline extended
</H1>
Given the difficult negotiations over a withdrawal from the use of nuclear
energy in Germany, the government has extended its deadline for reaching an
agreement with the industry. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, speaking on ZDF
television, said that a deal could be sought early in the new year as well.
Currently, he said, experts were examining the question of when compensatory
payments could become due. He did not get specific when asked about the
allowed remaining operational life of nuclear power reactors, saying only
that it would be more than 25 years. The Greens indicated consent, but want
to find a common position with the SPD before year's end.

<DOC de-news-1999-12-01-7>
<H1>
Schroeder: No wealth tax or property levy
</H1>
Chancellor Schroeder has completely ruled out the possibility of a
re-introduction of the private wealth tax, or of a time-limited property
levy. He told "Die Woche" newspaper that the constitution would not allow
either approach. Besides which, he added, the Bundesrat would block any such
move. Nevertheless, Schroeder wants his party to consider other means of
increasing tax income from those with high incomes, including pursuing tax
dodgers more vigorously.
Also in that interview, Schroeder again denied reports that he was planning
to shuffle his cabinet in the new year.

