<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-1>
<H1>
Bundestag debates eastward expansion of NATO
</H1>
The lower house of parliament, the Bundestag, has held a debate on the
eastward expansion of NATO, in which a majority of MPs welcomed the prospect
of extending the alliance into Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic, while
Alliance 90/The Greens opposed these ideas. The majority of the Green MPs
warned about the dangers of this NATO expansion.
According to the Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, the NATO expansion is part
of a policy of reconciliation. In response to the Green Party's resolve to
abstain from the vote he stated that this attitude indicated the lack of any
sense of history and was also immoral.
Similar concerns were voiced by Guenther Verheugen, a Social Democrat
spokesperson on foreign policy. He reminded the Green Party, a potential
coalition partner should his party win the next general election, that
everybody who is in or aspires to get into government in Germany must never
forget that Germany depends on a trusted relationship with its neighbours
like no other country in Europe.
Gerd Poppe, a member of the Green Party and a dissident in the former GDR,
made it clear that he would vote in favour of the eastern expansion. The
Defence Minister, Volker Ruehe, attacked the parliamentary leader of the
Green Party, Joschka Fischer, who himself will vote in favour of the eastern
expansion.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-2>
<H1>
Verdict against GDR border patrols
</H1>
The regional court of Berlin has sentenced the former leader of the GDR
border patrols, Mr. Woellner, to five years in prison for manslaughter. His
four deputies were found guilty of aiding manslaughter and received
sentences between 2 years and 3 years and 3 months on probation. The border
patrols, part of the former GDR army, were responsible for "securing the
border at the Berlin Wall". The prosecution alleged that they were
responsible for the death of 6 fugitives and were also involved in the
issuing of GDR border commands. These commands stated that an escape out of
the GDR had to be prevented at all costs.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-3>
<H1>
Nurses demonstrate for more qualified staff
</H1>
In the Ministry for Families in Bonn consultations have started on the
future ratio of qualified to unqualified staff in nursing homes. Originally
it was planned to increase the portion of trained staff to 50 % by October
this year. Hence the announcement of the Minister of Employment, Norbert
Bluem, and the Minister for Families, Claudia Nolte, to drop those plans
triggered strong protests. Now a compromise is being sought between the
Ministry and charity organisations. The Social Democrats have indicated that
they might vote for a compromise which postpones the introduction of the 50
% mark for another 3 years. At a protest rally of the charity organisations
under the slogan "action day for retirement homes" Ulrike Mascher from the
Social Democrats opted in an interview with the Bayrischer Rundfunk
[Bavarian radio station] for minimum standards in retirement homes.
Bavaria has announced that it would vote against the government in the
Bundesrat [upper house of parliament] should it insist on axing the 50 %
ratio.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-4>
<H1>
Mediation in Public Sector
</H1>
The time for set aside for mediation process in the Public Sector collective
is nearly over. Unless the mediators Hans Koschnik and Carl-Ludwig Wagner
achieve a breakthrough and come to a decision for the 3.2 million employees
by tomorrow morning industrial action seems more and more likely. Crucial
subjects during the negotiations are additional retirement insurance, paid
sick leave, equal wages and work hours among Eastern and Western employees
and a pay rise. In order to achieve an unanimous arbitration both employers
and employees have to accept compromises. For paid sick leave such a
compromise could be a change in the rating on which paid sick leave is
based. For the additional retirement insurance separate negotiations seem a
likely option. If agreed on, negotiations on this issue will continue
separately from the main collective bargaining round, but it would be agreed
during this round of talks that in future employees will have to pay into
this insurance. For the aim of equal wages and work hours among Eastern and
Western employees the most likely outcome will be a timescale which defines
at which points conditions in Eastern employees have to be improved by which
margin. The pay rise will pose the smallest problem, as a rise by 1 - 1.5 %
is widely expected.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-5>
<H1>
New European Triple Alliance
</H1>
The presidents of Russia and France, Boris Jelzin and Jaques Chirac, and the
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl have founded a European Triple Alliance. After
talks in the Russian town Bor Chancellor Kohl stressed that this Triple
Alliance was not aimed against any other nation, but that the 3 states would
collaborate closer on economic and cultural issues in future. All 3
statesmen stressed the importance of this meeting at a press conference
during their first summit. Among the many practical decisions of the summit
was a new transeuropean motorway from Paris via Berlin to Moscow, a
French-Russian-German university, a common history textbook and an
exhibition titled "Moscow - Berlin - Paris" in the year 2000. Next year's
summit in France might see the decision to build a European transport
aeroplane on the basis of the Russian-Ukrainian Antonov 70. This Triple
Alliance will have a summit once a year.
Especially Chancellor Helmut Kohl stressed that this must not be interpreted
as an unfriendly act against the United States or other partners within the
Western alliance. Any claims that the Triple Alliance was formed against
anyone were deeply malicious.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-6>
<H1>
Preussag continues growth
</H1>
The Preussag group continues to grow. Even after the sale of its steel
business the turnover increased by 21 % to 8.6 billion marks during the
first 5 months of the financial year 97/98. During a shareholders' meeting,
which about 900 people attended, the CEO, Mr. Frenzel, defended the sale of
Preussag Stahl AG to Lower Saxony and the Norddeutsche Landesbank [a
regional bank]. The state Lower Saxony has already taken over more shares
than originally planned.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-26-7>
<H1>
Eduard Zwick has died
</H1>
Bavaria's most famous tax fugitive, the spa tycoon Eduard Zwick, has died
yesterday at the age of 76 in a hospital in Bern [Switzerland]. He fled from
Germany to Switzerland during the early eighties with several million marks
of tax debts, which the Bavarian Ministry of Finance has not yet written
off. But before the Ministry of Finance can put in its claim, layers have to
disentangle the family relationships within the Zwick dynasty. Both his son
Johannes Zwick, owner of the profitable spa Johannisbad AG in Lower Bavaria,
and his estranged wife Angelika lay claim on an inheritance of at least 300
million marks . The decision in this lawsuit will be of interest for the
Bavarian Ministry of Finance, as Johannes Zwick is accused of tax evasion.
He is alleged to have tried to diminish tax debts on behalf on his father by
providing wrong information on the family fortune.

