<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-1>
<H1>
Preparations for Castor Transport under way
</H1>
The countdown for the controversial Castor transport has begun.  Three Castor
containers have been loaded onto trucks at the Neckar-Westheim nuclear power
plant.  Their destination is the close-by town of Walheim where a Castor
container from the Grundremming nuclear power plant and two other ones from
the French reprocessing facility at La Hague will be added to the train.  The
cargo is then to be shipped to Gorleben by rail.  The transport is to begin on
the weekend and will last until the middle of next week.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-2>
<H1>
Clashes in Parliament over Castor transports
</H1>
The imminent castor transports to the Gorleben interim storage facility have
provoked a fierce debate in the German Parliament.  Using the Coalition's
majority, the Parliament has issued a resolution condemning violent acts of
protest.  Nearly all SPD members of Parliament, however, abstained from the
vote.  Minister of Economics, Mr. Rexrodt (FDP), defended the transports and
said that they were safe.  The Minister for Environmental Issues, Ms. Merkel
(CDU), shared the opinion that the Castor containers pose no risk.  Interior
Minister, Mr. Kanther, cautioned against protest rallies and announced that
strict measures would be taken to enforce law and order.  Mr. Glogowski (SPD),
Interior Minister of Lower Saxony, retorted that the Federal Government itself
was responsible for the conflict, on account of its failed energy policy.  He
demanded that the nuclear transports be brought to a halt.  The head of the
parliamentary group of Alliance 90/The Greens, Mr. Fischer, appealed for
peaceful protest demonstrations.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-3>
<H1>
Road tolls ahead and private finance for road construction projects
</H1>
According to plans drawn up by the Federal Government, motorists may soon have
to pay tolls on privately built roads, bridges and tunnels.  The Ministry of
Transport confirmed today that large-scale projects will in future be financed
by private construction firms.  The subsequent introduction of tolls will be
subject to the government's approval.  A total of 18 projects are planned.
The transport spokesman for the environmental protection organization BUND,
Mr. Westenberger, described the Ministry's plans as a threat to the
environment.  Speaking on Deutschlandfunk radio, he said this was an attempt
to persuade private industry to build new roads.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-4>
<H1>
Wage negotiations in construction industry fail during first round
</H1>
In the construction industry, talks about continued sick pay at 100% have
broken down during the first session.  As the union's spokesman explained in
Frankfurt/Main this evening, the employers categorically refused to discuss
the issue within the framework of the bargaining agreement.  The union IG Bau
will now initiate a mediation procedure in the hope of resolving the conflict.
Other points of the 1997 bargaining agreement are to be negotiated on March
13th. About 1.3 million people are employed in this sector of industry.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-5>
<H1>
Seehofer to adhere to plans for health insurance contributions
</H1>
Despite opposition from within the ranks of CDU/CSU, the Minister for Health,
Mr. Seehofer, is adhering to his plans regarding the financing of health
insurance contributions.  In Bonn Mr. Seehofer (CSU) reaffirmed his intention
to permit health insurers to pass future rises in premiums onto the employees.
He refuted any reports to the contrary.  In a topical debate in Parliament,
the SPD representative Mr. Dressler described Mr. Seehofer's plans as a break
with the prevailing principles of social security.  He said this would mark
the beginning of the end of the welfare state.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-6>
<H1>
Bundestag refuses to host Wehrmacht exhibition in Bonn
</H1>
The Bundestag's administration has refused to host the exhibition "War of
Destruction - Crimes of the Wehrmacht from 1941 to 1944" which is currently on
display in Munich.  In December the PDS [Party of Democratic Socialism,
successor of former GDR state party] submitted a request for the exhibition to
be staged within the German parliament building in Bonn.  The President of the
Parliament, Ms. Suessmuth, explained that it is not the task of the Bundestag
to host such a controversial exhibition.  Besides, in the past the Bundestag
has usually only staged exhibitions which have not previously been on public
display.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-7>
<H1>
Towns along the Rhine prepare for floods
</H1>
After the floods in the South and Southwest of Germany, towns along the river
Rhine are now preparing for high water levels.  In Cologne and Bonn water
levels have been rising by several centimeters every hour.  Streets along the
banks of the river are already flooded.  In Koblenz the water level will reach
its peak tomorrow.  In Baden-Wuerttemberg the situation is now improving,
after parts of the historic city centers of Saarbruecken and Heidelberg were
flooded last night.  The rivers Saar and Neckar burst their banks following
the heavy rainfall of the past few days.  Water levels reached their peak in
Saarbruecken this morning.  During repair works an excavator overturned on the
river bank.  The driver fell into the Saar and is feared drowned.  The
historic town center of Zell on the river Mosel is flooded, with river levels
still rising.  The critical mark is a level of ten meters.  Firefighters are
coordinating relief efforts for the 6,000 affected citizens.  The situation is
also critical in Cochem.  The river Neckar near Heidelberg is receding, but
ships are not yet able to operate on the Neckar, Mosel or Saar.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-27-8>
<H1>
Ship traffic on Rhine disrupted after vessel sinks
</H1>
Ship traffic on the river Rhine near Assmannshausen is still subject to
disruption.  On Tuesday night a cargo ship carrying 1800 tons of grit sank.
The wreck is leaking gasoline and oil.  Residents along the river downstream
as far as the Netherlands have been warned about the pollution.  Several
kilometers of the river have already been contaminated.

