<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-1>
<H1>
"Stably critical" - The situation in the flooded areas
</H1>
Units of the army are again deployed to eastern Brandenburg
to repair damage to the Oder dikes.  According to information given
by the crisis management staff in Potsdam, the upper area of the
dikes to the south of Hohenwutzen and near Ratzdorf had cracks
about 15 feet in length.  The soldiers had immediately been
deployed to both damaged areas in order to seal the dikes.  A
spokesperson for the crisis management staff referred to the
situation as "stably critical." The Oder level receded slightly
during the night from Friday to Saturday.  To be sure, after
additional rainfall in Poland another rise is to be expected.  Near
Reitwein, work has begun to erect a cross-dike two and a half
kilometers in length.  It is supposed to protect the southern
Oderbruch areas from flooding if and when the frontal upper dikes
can no longer withstand the water pressure.  The minister of the
interior of Brandenburg, Mr. Ziel gave further assurances on
Saturday morning that no area of the main dike would be given up.
During interviews with DEUTSCHLANDRADIO he said that securing the
banks of the Oder was a matter of top priority.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-2>
<H1>
Mr. Lafontaine rejects Mr. Kohl's charges
</H1>
The head of the SPD, Mr. Lafontaine has rejected the newest
charges leveled against his party by Chancellor Kohl.  The
Chancellor, he stated, was making these charges in order to divert
attention from the total failure of his economic and social
policies.  It was the political duty of the SPD, he continued, to
stop the unsocial and financially unfeasible taxation plans of the
Coalition.  Mr.  Kohl had charged that the Opposition was misusing
the Parliament as a weapon in its struggle for power.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-3>
<H1>
Sharper parliamentary jurisdictional demarcations called for
</H1>
The head of the mediation committee, Mr. Blehns advocates a sharper
jurisdictional demarcation between the two chambers of Parliament.
Speaking in the SFB, the CDU-politician called it a problematic
constitutional situation if the Bundesrat had full co-determination
jurisdiction in too many areas.  Citizens found it increasingly
difficult to comprehend, he continued, that the government they had
elected was finding barriers in the Bundesrat when it came to
realizing their political programs.  During the past week, Mr.
Blehns, working with SPD chief negotiator Voscherau had tried to
achieve a tax reform compromise in the mediation committee.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-4>
<H1>
Mr. Eichel advocates earlier parliamentary elections
</H1>
The minister president of Hessia, Mr. Eichel, has called for
earlier Bundestag elections in case no agreement is reached in the
tax disagreement.  A second mediation process would only make
sense, the SPD politician told DEUTSCHLANDFUNK, if Minister for
Finance Waigel would propose a new concept which would not ruin the
federal budget.  On Tuesday in the Bundestag, the Coalition would
be able to prove its ability to compromise by not blocking the
lowering of fringe benefits, Mr. Eichel emphasized.  The
spokesperson for Buendnis 90/The Greens, Mr. Trittin, demanded
immediate elections, since there would be relevant progress in tax
reform before the next election.  Deputy head of the FDP, Mr.
Bruederle, on the other hand, pleaded for continued negotiation.
He said that he was confident that, after the Hamburg elections at
the very latest, the solidarity of democrats would also win out in
the SPD over considerations of party strategy.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-5>
<H1>
Discussion about the lowering of the solidarity surtax
</H1>
The head of the parliamentary CDU/CSU faction, Mr. Schaeuble, gave
assurances on Friday that the Coalition would stay with the
lowering of the solidarity surtax from 7.5 to 5.5. per cent.
But, in the same breath, Mr. Schaeuble conceded that only the
financially feasible could be carried out.   And this is precisely
what is again being discussed in the Coalition.  It is clear to the
FDP: the solidarity surtax must be lowered.  No matter whether the
great tax reform has seen its final defeat or whether there is
still hope of further negotiation, the SOLI [solidarity] surtax
decrease of January 1, 1998 would have to happen for sure; the FDP
was insisting on it, Baden-Wuerttemberg's Minister of Economic
Affairs Doering stated.  According to the ideas of the liberals, a
special law was to affirm once and for all the lowering of the SOLI
from 7.5 to 5.5 per cent.  Mr. Dopering, a member of the FDP
leadership said the citizenry had to be given a clear signal that,
even if tax reform fails, taxes would be lowered at least by the
reduction of the SOLI surtax.  The east German parliamentary
representatives do not like this signal at all.  If the tax
reform fails, the spokesperson for the east German deputies, Mr.
Krueger, said, the basis for lowering the SOLI would be lost.  He
said: we do not consider it a priority to mobilize for the lowering
of the SOLI.  He pointed to bottlenecks in the budget which would
first have to be resolved. He criticized that the financing of the
project common to all of Germany which the East constituted was
still up in the air. In the outline of the federal budget 1998,
2.74 billion marks are projected for economic growth in the new
states.  During the present year, the amount was still 2.85
billion.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-6>
<H1>
Taxpayer League criticizes government
</H1>
The Taxpayer League has criticized the government for making a false
start by enacting the significant tax reform. Chancellor Kohl and Finance
Minister Waigel did not battle enough on behalf of reform the leader
of the organization, Daelke, said in a newspaper interview. The SPD
accused Daelke of holding a blockade mentality. He declared himself
optimistic that a second attempt at communication could still lead to a
result.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-7>
<H1>
Chilean authorities search further for Paul Schaefer
</H1>
The Chilean authorities are still searching for Paul Schaefer, head of the
notorious Colonia Dignidad in Chile. The second-in-command of the
settlement, Hartmut Hopp, was caught yesterday. A Chilean arrest warrent
was issued against both men in the meantime, as they had left the
community in a shambles. The two ex-members of the Colonia Dignidad,
Tobias Mueller and Sale Luna, were apprehended this afternoon in the
Frankfurt airport. They fled the infamous camp a couple days ago and
stayed in the meantime in the custody of the German embassy. In front of
the judge, who was the one most involved in the search for Paul Schaefer,
they gave evidence for over eight hours. Paul Schaefer is charged with
raping minors. By this time Hartmut Hopp, the second-in-command
of the settlement, showed up completely unexpectedly at the airport in
Santiago, and was arrested there. He had fled to Argentina with his
family,  probably to insure the safety of his son Michael, whom he is said
to have illegally adopted.

<DOC de-news-1997-08-02-8>
<H1>
End of hostage-taking in Friedberg
</H1>
In the prison of the Hessian city Friedberg a hostage situation was
brought to an end early this morning. The police attacked shortly before 5
am. The 33 year old suspect was overpowered by a special police unit,
along with the help of a flash grenade. One of the hostages received a
slight penetrating wound in the head. His 23 year old hostage, an officer
of the JVA, was unhurt. The police tried until the very last moment to
create a negotiating situation that would convince the kidnapper to
release the hostages and surrender. At a tactically advantageous moment
the attack occured, a police spokesman explained. The 33 year old suspect
from the High Taunus region called out from his cell about 10:40 pm for
the guard, complaining of a toothache. At that point
he grabbed a prison knife and took 2 officers in his cell as hostages. He
overpowered them with kicks. One of the officers was able to seperate
himself and flee. In the judgement of the chief of police because neither
officer had keys that would allow the prisoner to leave the jail, the
situation was able to be stabilized and the prisoner was able to be
overpowered.

