<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-1>
<H1>
Federal Constitutional Court decided on Wall guard sentences
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe has found that top
politicians of the former German Democratic Republic may be sentenced by
courts of the Federal Republic of Germany for shoot-to-kill commands at the
border between both German countries.
The eight judges agreed unanimously that the former members of the National
Defence Council, Mr. Albrecht, Mr. Kessler, and Mr. Strelitz, could not
invoke the principle of international immunity as former heads of
government. Neither could they assume that they could not be sentenced by
Federal-German courts because GDR border practices agreed with contemporary
GDR command structure. It was a most severe wrong to set political aims
higher than the individual's right to life by ordering East-German border
guards to kill border trespassers when the guards were in doubt whether
trespassers could not be stopped otherwise. The commands severely
contradicted internationally accepted Basic and Human Rights. The principle
of the German constitution that offenses cannot be punished retroactively
was not applicable to such obvious Human Rights violations but applied only
to the penal code established under principles of democracy, of separation
of powers, and the commitment to the Basic Rights.
<P>
The accused had been sentenced by the Berlin Regional Court in September
1993 to between four-and-a-half and seven-and-a-half years in prison for
incitement to manslaughter of refugees. The charge of a former GDR border
guard who had been sentenced for manslaughter was also turned down by the
judges. In doing so they confirmed the finding that the Federal High Court
had put forward in numerous proceedings.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-2>
<H1>
Discussions about austerity package
</H1>
Bergner, deputy CDU president, has called upon the Liberals to withdraw
their demands to reduce the solidarity tax. Bergner said in a newspaper
interview the Liberals should not keep calling out rates that later could
not be fulfilled. He advocated not to specify a certain rate during
deliberations of the tax reform.
This morning the heads of the coalition parties met again in the
Chancellor's Office to talk about the 1997 federal budget. Last night the
Bundestag factions of CDU/CSU and FDP had approved budget cuts of DM3
billion, DM1bn alone was cut from the Federal Labour Office's budget. On
the ARD TV morning show CDU welfare expert Heiner Geissler stressed this
did not mean that unemployment benefits would be cut. The savings would be
made in other areas. Coalition budget experts will deal today with further
budget details. Finance Minister Theo Waigel stated that the 1997 budget
was based on new debts of [only] DM56.5 billion. Thus, Germany is
fulfilling the criteria for the European Monetary Union. In a newspaper
interview, Secretary of the Chancellor's Office Friedrich Bohl expressed
the opinion that the government coalition was strengthened after the budget
deliberations.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-3>
<H1>
Minimum wages on German construction sites
</H1>
Construction workers employed in other EU states working on German sites
must be paid German minimum wages starting January. The wage committee of
the Labour Ministry agreed to make the construction industry's collective
agreement generally binding until the end of August 1997. The step allows a
law to become effective that is to prevent wage dumping. The law is limited
until the end of August 1997. The minimum wages, DM17 in West Germany and
DM15.64 in East Germany, are to protect German construction workers from
cheap foreign competition. Labour Minister Norbert Bluem said that fair
competition was now back to German construction sites. There would be
strict controls to ensure like wage for like work.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-4>
<H1>
Final arguments in Mykonos trial
</H1>
The prosecutors have begun their final arguments in the so-called Mykonos
trial. The five accused have allegedly murdered three oppositional
Kurdish-Iranian politicians and their translator in September 1992 in the
Berlin restaurant Mykonos. Mr. Justice Bruno Jost accused Iran of state
terrorism. Iran had cold-bloodedly ordered the murder of the four men in
Berlin and now tries to cover up its involvement in the murder as best as
it can. However, Iran would not succeed to force a sentence that does not
reveal these links. The prosecutors are convinced that the religious and
political leadership of Iran gave the orders for the attack on the
restaurant.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-5>
<H1>
Protests against genetically engineered soya beans
</H1>
About 40 Greenpeace activists have today blocked an oil mill in the port of
Hamburg in protest against the use of genetically engineered soya beans.
The environmentalists chained themselves to the company's gates. The oil
mill was the first company to import genetically engineered soya beans from
the USA one week ago. The beans have been made resistant against herbicides
by manipulating their genes.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-6>
<H1>
New armament agency for Europe
</H1>
The new armament agency was originally planned as a joint French-German
project, now it has grown. In future it will be run by four countries. The
Defence Ministers of Italy, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany will
sign a corresponding treaty tonight in Strasbourg. The agency is to
facilitate co-operation in the field of armament. More European states can
join in future under certain conditions.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-7>
<H1>
Performance-related payment for professors
</H1>
The president of the Conference of University and College Presidents wants
that professors are paid according to performance and not according to
seniority. He said, becoming older was not a special performance.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-8>
<H1>
Stuttgart to become stronger as media centre
</H1>
The newly elected mayor of Stuttgart, Mr. Schuster, said the fusion of the
two public broadcasters Sueddeutscher Rundfunk and Suedwestfunk must not
happen at the expense of the state capital. He continues that Stuttgart was
a good place for media as communication technology, large publishing
houses, and Sueddeutscher Rundfunk as a strong broadcaster were all
present. CDU politician Schuster also advocated to seat the future director
of the two-state broadcaster in Stuttgart. Important programmes and
editorial staff of Sueddeutscher Rundfunk had to stay in the
Baden-Wuerttemberg capital. Schuster said further that one of his most
important aims as future Mayor of Stuttgart was to create more jobs,
especially for young people.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-9>
<H1>
No decision on Eurofighter expected for this year
</H1>
CDU/CSU sources said after coalition talks that evidently the government
will not decide until next year whether to buy Eurofighter jets.
Prerequisite for a decision was that Defence Minister Volker Ruehe presents
a corresponding motion to the cabinet. The Bundeswehr, Germany's armed
forces, intends to buy 180 Eurofighters. The combat jet was developed
jointly by Germany, Great Britain, Spain, and Italy.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-10>
<H1>
Comments on coalition quarrels
</H1>
The Social-Democrats do not assume that the coalition will break after the
latest quarrels within the Christian-Liberal coalition. SPD faction head
Rudolf Scharping, talking to journalists in Bonn, said his aim for the SPD
was to cut off well at the next federal elections. Since the change of the
SPD presidency about one year ago the SPD had stabilized and had good
chances to become strongest party in two years.
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel strongly criticized the quarrels within the
coalition. The former FDP secretary-general stated in an interview with the
daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung "the small-minded cackling not
supporting the welfare of citizens and state must stop!"

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-11>
<H1>
Bill for non-smoker protection in Germany
</H1>
Non-smokers in Germany should be better protected according to the will of
all parties in the Bundestag. Alliance90/Greens wants to establish
smoke-free areas in the work-place and a general smoke ban in all public
buildings. The sale of cigarettes from publicly accessible vending machines
should be prohibited. The bill for the non-smoker protection law also
contains restrictions for restaurants with more than 50 seats. The
restaurants are required to provide smoke-free areas. Alliance90/Greens
also wants to oblige the tobacco industry to pay ten percent of their
advertising budget to a fund for health education. The other parties are
going to present a joint bill tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-12-12>
<H1>
Nestle wants to market genetically-engineered food
</H1>
Swiss food group Nestle wants to market genetically engineered food as soon
as possible. Concerned brands are Maggi and Nestle cornflake products.
Genetically engineered products will also be added to baby food of the
Alete brand. Mr. Maucher, head of Nestle said the genetically engineered
food had to be introduced quickly so one could see the consumers' reaction.
Maucher is convinced that food with altered genes will soon be part of
everyday-life. "Even the upset discussion in Germany won't change that".
Other large food companies take a wait-and-see approach. E.g.,
Kraft-Jacobs-Suchard in Bremen has promised that no genetically engineered
products are being used in the Miracoli, Kaba, and Milka brands in Europe.

