<DOC de-news-1998-11-16-1>
<H1>
Schroeder: No additional credits for Russia at this time
</H1>
After bordering nations West and East the new government is
now focussing relations with Russia. Chancellor Shcroeder
asserted immediately after the election that relations
with Russia were to be put on a broader base, meaning more
contacts with political powers in the country rather than
personal friendship. Notwithstanding, the problems he
encountered during his inaugural visit to Moscow have not
changed. The chancellor declared in Moscow today that
Germany had come to the end of her possibilities regarding
outright financial aid for crisis-ridden Russia. He offered
collaboration on specific projects and increased advisory
action. After a dialogue and a working lunch with premier
Primakov, Schroeder said the economic program recently
unveiled by the Russian government was a good start towards
obtaining IMF and World Bank credits withheld up to now.
It might be an important task for Germany to sell this
program on an international scale. Both Schroeder and
Primakov agreed that contacts between both nations were
important and should be built on a broader foundation
regardless of which governments were in power. According
to Gerhard Schroeder, there was consensus on many points
of European security. Schroeder thanked Primakov for his
efforts to defuse the Iraq crisis.
Tomorrow, gerhard Schroeder will have a brief meeting with
Boris Yeltsin.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-16-2>
<H1>
Franco-German summit in Bonn
</H1>
The Franco-German economic council met again today at
Bonn's Petersberg. Twice a year, politicians of the
financial area of both nations meet to align economic
and monetary decisions with each other. For the finance
ministers it was their second meeting since the new
government took over in Germany. They could therefore
quickly turn to the main issues, to wit, European monetary
union and the global economic crises. With the Euro being
introduced, there must needs exist common economic and
financial policies. Minister Lafontaine and his French
counterpart Strauss-Kahn laid down the foundations for
this course of action. According to Lafontaine, the European
Central Bank cannot by itself create a more stable
economic environment. He said, "When we have an area with a
common currency, we are called on to find financial and
economic policies in accord with monetary policy. To obtain
this, we must do all in our power to provide economic
growth, as by growth alone we shall create more jobs in
the end." Bonn and Paris are also willing to seek
uniformity of European corporate taxes by mid-1999. Tax
oases are to be laid dry. Also, France agrees with
Germany's aspiration to lower the country's contribution
to the EU till.
As to what regards the much discussed fight with Germany's
central bank over interest rates, Lafontaine said he had
been misunderstood. He said he never criticized Germany's
monetary guardians, but had tried to show up the necessity
of a uniform lowering of interest rates after the start
of the new common currency.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-16-3>
<H1>
Successful police hunt not officially confirmed as yet
</H1>
Police seem to have made considerable progress in the
investigation of the blackmailing against food producer
Thomy. According to the daily "Hannoversche Allgemeine
Zeitung", a suspect was arrested as early as September
and is since held for investigation. Frankfurt criminal
police confirmed the news item but refused to comment on
it. A press conference was announced for tomorrow. Thomy
has been being blackmailed for over two years. Every now
and then, foodstuffs laced with cyanide had appeared
in supermarkets. The blackmailer wanted to extort DM 25
million in uncut diamonds from the Nestle-owned company.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-16-4>
<H1>
Herzog honours Teddy Kollek
</H1>
Germany's president bestowed the Federal Order of Merit
with Star on Teddy Kollek, former Mayor of Jerusalem.
Kollek has been a friend and defender of Germany, said
Herzog during his visit to Israel's capital. Now 87,
he was Mayor of Jerusalem for almost 30 years, up to 1993.
During his tenure, he has especially come out for peaceful
coexistence between Jews and Arabs.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-16-5>
<H1>
Fire-fighting on doomed freighter delayed
</H1>
The job of fighting the fire raging on board the stranded
freighter "Pallas" is all but done with. Conclusion is
foreseen for tomorrow, notwithstanding last minute
problems. The rupture in the hull remains unchanged. 38
metric tons of oil in all have seeped from the ship. Fire
fighting was delayed during the course of today. Salvage
chief Pete Nauter said there had been unforeseen
complications, so the action would not be concluded by
tonight, as planned, but only by tomorrow. On flooding the
wreck, an unexpected amount of partly dry wood had turned
up and caught fire.
By tomorrow, salvage island "Barbara" is expected to arrive
at the Amrum site. After the fire is extinguished, the
estimated 600 metric tons of fuel oil and 150 metric tons
of Diesel oil are to be pumped out as quickly as possible.
Weather in the Amrum area remains stable and beaches were
mainly free from further contamination. 3,200 maritime
birds were killed by oil infestation at last hearing.

