<DOC de-news-1998-06-27-1>
<H1>
CSU election campaign kicked off in Munich
</H1>
The CSU wants their election campaign kick off in Munich to be seen as a
big merry party. CSU head Theo Waigel and the Bavarian Minister President
Edmund Stoiber arrived in one of the new trade fair halls in election
buses. The attacks on their political opponents was more cutting than
merry as Theo Waigel explained how important the elections are to the
approximately 5000 party members in attendance. Waigel said that Stoiber
needs to continue his political policies with the same cleverness and zest
as in the last five years. Waigel feels that the Bavarian politics, which
is admired throughout of Germany, should continue unchanged in the future.
The white/ blue identity of the Bavarian state is a political guarantee
for the CSU. There can only be a strong Bavarian state with a strong CSU.
And Germany will only win with Bavaria. That is the motto on the 13th and
the 27th of September. Waigel then attacked the party's political
opponents. According to Waigel, the question is if Helmut Kohl, a trusted
leader in Germany and Europe, will be available at the turn of the new
century or if he will be exchanged for Gerhard Schroeder, a man who until
a few years ago was a "deep red JuSo" [socialist member of the SPD's Youth
Fraction], revolted against anything and everything, and is now a wolf in
sheep=92s clothing.  Waigel believes Helmut Kohl will once again be elected
to ensure a good future for Germany. Waigel accused Schroeder of empty
promises and criticized a possible cabinet with Otto Schili and Joschka
Fischer.=20

<DOC de-news-1998-06-27-2>
<H1>
Police investigating German hooligans
</H1>
The police department is conducting investigations on three German
hooligans who were apparently involved in the attack a week ago on the
French police officer in Lens. An 18-year-old and a 23-year-old man from
Hamburg-Lorueb as well as his twin from Eidelstedt are being investigated.
All three are well known to the police and belong to the Hamburg hooligan
scene. The police are especially interested in the two 23-year-old twins.=
=20
One of the twins is identifiable on one of the photos that the press
published of the attack. It shows one of the suspects hitting the
unconscious police officer as he is lying on the ground. One of the
brothers admitted to being in the photo during questioning yesterday.
Police secured quite a bit of evidence during searches of both twins=92
apartments.=20

<P>
A 27-year-old who is being investigated in connection with
the attack on the French gendarme Daniel Nivell in Lens turned himself in
to the police. According to the Gelsenkirchen public prosecutors office,
the man was released after questioning, since the initial suspicions
against him could not be corroborated. Neither a search of his apartment
nor the Bundeskriminalamt=92s investigations could produce proof for the
28-year-old=92s involvement in the crime. The French police officer was
critically injured during the attack and has been in a coma ever since.=20

<DOC de-news-1998-06-27-3>
<H1>
FPD party convention in Leipzig
</H1>
The FDP concerned themselves with their election campaign during
today=92s party convention. Two of the topics were the market economy and
the rights of foreigners.  The Free Democrats sought to distance
themselves today from the coalition partners after saying yesterday that
they would stay in the present Union government coalition. "The
conservatives are our government partner in parliament but a competitor in
the campaign," FDP general secretary Guido Westerwelle told the delegates
in Leipzig. This stand was a clear refusal of the Union support.
Independence creates loneliness, included Westerwelle, as does pride and
self-importance. He showed the same sentiments during his attacks on the
political opponents as well as partners.  "Helmut Kohl is not the
coalition candidate (for chancellor)  but the candidate of the CDU," he
said. The social policies of Bluem are not liberal but provincial. Stoiber
couldn'=92t even maintain peace with Austria as secretary of state. And the=
n
Westerwelle attacked the Green Party.  After all, he said, the Greens
wanted to push the FDP out of third place in the party rankings. "The
Greens could hide between the broad shoulders of Joschka Fischer until
now.  His shoulders have gotten smaller and the Greens can now be seen.=20
The Greens are now a party of post-material fullness."  The FDP has to
therefore try to avoid that a red-green coalition alone is responsible for
renewal and change.  Westerwelle does not believe a single word. He feels
that Schroeder intends to meet the middle=92s needs and that Oskar
Lafontaine is running the party. He said he gets goosebumps when he
considers the possibility of Oskar Lafontaine coming to power after a
transitional chancellor Schroeder. The General Secretary also had nothing
good to say about the PDS. He feels they are misleading package and are
lying to the people. Westerwelle apparently hit the nerve of the
delegation with all these attacks and demands, because they gave him a
very long applause.=20

<DOC de-news-1998-06-27-4>
<H1>
Stollmann denies demand to get rid of employee committees
</H1>
The SPD candidate for Minister of Finance Stollmann denies that he
demanded getting rid of employee committees.  He said in a newspaper
interview that employees would also have a say in his company.=20

<DOC de-news-1998-06-27-5>
<H1>
Public prosecutors contradict Focus report of ICE accident
</H1>
According to the public prosecutors office, the doomed train's
unplanned stop on the day of the train accident in Eschede had nothing to
do with the accident.  The responsible public prosecutors office in Celle
explained that the three-minute stop between stations was due to a member
of the train personnel joining the trip. The prosecutors office
contradicted a report by the magazine =93Focus=94 with their statement. The
Focus reported in the newest edition that the train stopped while
suspicious noises could be heard in the ICE.=20

