<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-1>
<H1>
Ms. Simonis: Reevaluation of gold undermines trust in Euro
</H1>
According to the Minister President of Schleswig-Holstein, a
reevaluation of the gold-and foreign currency-reserves at this time
would undermine trust in the Euro.  She told the DEUTSCHLANDFUNK on
Saturday morning that the average citizen's attitude towards the
projected European monetary reform was already extremely tense.
One could see, she continued, that last resorts were to be applied
at this time because of the dramatic budget situation.  Ms. Simonis
expressed her opposition to postponing the monetary union.  Of
course, she stated it had been the government's mistake  to explain
all the necessary attempts at savings by pointing to the Euro.
Minister for Finance Waigel had affirmed previously that he wanted
it came from his own ranks.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-2>
<H1>
Mr. Tiedtmeier denies the SPIEGEL'S report
</H1>
Federal Bank President Tiedtmeier had a spokesperson deny a report
in the SPIEGEL according to which he had pleaded for a postponement
of the European monetary reform.  The spokesperson for the Federal
Bank in Frankfurt on the Main stated that the Hamburg news magazine
had misquoted Mr. Tiedtmeier.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-3>
<H1>
New vexations in sight for Mr. Waigel
</H1>
The Federal Minister for Finance must be prepared for new vexations
if the information given by BILD AM SONNTAG is accurate.  During
consultations about the 1998 budget, Waigel supposedly intends to
postpone the lowering of the solidarity contribution.  If this is
the case, the Minister can count on violent opposition from the
FDP.  On Sunday evening, the heads of the Bonn Coalition will meet
at the Chancellor's office.  And at this meeting, according to
reports by BILD AM SONNTAG, Minister for Finance Waigel wants to
propose a two-sided program for consolidation. From the specific
details, the paper proposes to make inroads in child payments as
well as cuts in the subsidies for coal and agriculture.  To be
sure, Mr.  Waigel is said to realize that he can hardly expect to
implement these plans.  For this reason, the newspaper states, the
Minister for Finance will propose either raising the mineral oil
tax or postponing the lowering of the solidarity surtax.  The Free
Democrats react by openly threatening to end the Coalition.  Mr.
Fridhoff, the economic policy spokesman for the FDP-faction said
that he saw no chance that the Liberals would agree to an increase
in taxes in order to plug up the holes in the budget. That, he
added, also included the solidarity surtax,

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-4>
<H1>
Berlin Coalition deliberates on controversy surrounding Mr. Hase
</H1>
On Saturday, the Coalition of CDU and SPD discussed the controversy
surrounding Parliamentary President Hase. The reason for the
differences is that the Social Democrats agree with a proposal of
the Coalition Greens which had demanded the resignation of the CDU-
politician.  Mr. Hase is charged with wrongdoing in political and
private matters,  But the vote of Parliament has no binding effect
on him since the president is not voted out of office but can only
offer his voluntary resignation.  In the meantime, Mr. Hase has
rejected such a move.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-5>
<H1>
Luebeck: Demonstration against rightist extremism
</H1>
Nearly 700 people demonstrated peacefully today against right extremism in
Luebeck. A contemporaneous gathering of right oriented groups, along with a
feared accompanying confrontation, did not occur. These groups' demonstrations
had been prohibited beforehand.
The right groups did not reach the seven towers of Luebeck. Security forces
arrived early this morning in great number. Several hundred were deployed in
front of thecity gates. According to police spokesman Bernd Tegebauer, there
were no rightists in sight. With widespread communications, both public and
private, throughout the entire land, the police had the situation in hand and
had no problems enforcing the legally binding ban on the radical right groups.
Several hundred people were in the inner city, following the call of the
federation against racism. They protested peacefully against Nazi marches,
against ignorance and against arson, as well as demonstrating for an extended
right of residence for refugees. After the demonstration there were four preplanned arrests. Whether the Republikaner met, and if so where, is not known.
Their planned gathering at a guest house in the Moisling section of town did
not take place because the office for public order closed the bar. The
reasoning was that an unavoidable threat to guests at the inn must be reckoned
with. The churches in Luebeck have called for a silent march this evening.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-6>
<H1>
The position of children in society must improve
</H1>
On the eve of the international day of the child Sunday, the president of the
German Children's Aid Society, Krueger, declared that the position of the
child in society must be improved. He said today on "Deutschlandradio Berlin"
that one of the greatest risks for poverty is having a child. In one of the
richest countries in the world, there is something wrong with that fact,
Krueger said. The SPD Bundestag representitive argued that children's politics
should be understood as investment politics. Krueger also advocated that the
theme of child health must be brought into public discourse more strongly.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-31-7>
<H1>
President of doctors' federation advocates smoking ban
</H1>
The president of the German Doctors' Federation, Villmar, has emphatically
recommended a no smoking law. In honor of the international No Smoking Day
Villmar said that smoking in all public buildings and in the workplace must
be banned. Three million die each year worldwide as a result of smoking, and
this tendency is rising. The World Health Organization calculates that in the
year 2020 there will be ten million smokers' deaths, 70 percent of which
will occur in the third world, where the unhealthier aspects of industrial
life are gaining acceptance. In this respect smoking is a plague for the
WHO, and must be fought with all possible means. It has declared the tobacco
industry as its chief opponent. In their pursuit of profit, the industry has
suppressed information about the injurious nature of tobacco smoke for decades.
The have knowingly driven people into sickness, addiction and death, says the
WHO. The basic assumption today is that smoking is the cause of about 25 illnesses. For this reason the organization is calling on all governments finally
to act. Tobacco taxes should be so drastically raised that youth can no longer
afford cigarettes. Tobacco ads should be so regualted that they are no longer
attractive to children. Governments should also develop programs for preventive
programs and subsidize smoke ending programs. The total price of all of these
programs would be less costly for society than paying for the handling of lung
cancer patients.

