<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-1>
<H1>
Mass demonstration against health care reform
</H1>
Several thousand physicians and health workers demonstrated today in
central Berlin against the reform plans of Health Minister Fischer. The
motto for the protest was "Laughter alone is not the best medicine."
The central point of criticism for the demonstration was Fischer's
plan for an single global budget for health services. Through this
budget, the government wants to keep health insurance contributions
stable. Head of the Federal Dentists' Association, Willmes, said
the planned changes would not reform the health system, but rather
set it on its ear. In addition, critics see thousands of health
service jobs as endangered. Fischer got some support in the
afternoon from health insurance companies. For example, Chairman
Ahrens of AOK (a national public healthcare insurance provider) explained,
it should not be a function of the health care system to plan
uneconomically in order to protect jobs. Minister Fischer has
broken off discussions with doctors participating in the public
health insurance system, because those doctors had threatened to
limit services to patients.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-2>
<H1>
Honoring Holocaust victims
</H1>
Israeli Prime Minister Barak and Chancellor Schroeder remembered the
victims of the Holocaust on a visit to the former concentration camp
Sachsenhausen. With Barak present, Schroeder said that the name
"Sachsenhausen" stands together with names of many other camps as
symbols for the most terrible crime in German history. Germany owes
it to the dead to win in the struggle against hate and prejudice.
"We must remind both ourselves and everybody else of it again and
again", said Schroeder. Barak also urged a fight against any and
all emerging neo-nazi or anti-semitic tendencies. In his speech,
delivered in Hebrew, he said "we swear that as long as we draw
breath, there will be no more places like Auschwitz, no more death
marches of Jews to the gas chambers, and no more mass graves."

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-3>
<H1>
Green party in crisis
</H1>
In the view of Foreign Minister Fischer, the crisis in the Green
party poses a danger to the governing coalition. Fischer told the
newspaper "Die Zeit" that the Greens would have to leave the
coalition if the downturn in party fortunes continues.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-4>
<H1>
Future of federal transfer payments
</H1>
The Federal Constitutional Court has begun legal proceedings
regarding the future of federal transfer of funds between the
states. The Premiers of the states who are plaintiffs in this case,
Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bavaria and Hesse, affirmed their view that the
existing system of payments is unconstitutional before the judges of
the court's Second Senate. The three states see themselves as excessively
burdened in their role as givers of aid, providing billions in
subsidies to poorer states. State Premier Teufel of Baden-
Wuerttemberg said that transfer payments which raise the poorest
states to a financial strength which is 99.5% of the average
represent an overly aggressive equalization. In additional, Teufel
criticized the lack of incentive for poorer states to better their
situation. Schleswig-Holstein, Lower Saxony and Bremen, representing
the beneficiary states, want the Federal Constitutional Court to
confirm that the existing system of transfer payments is in fact
constitutional. Representatives of these states accused the
plaintiffs of abandoning without cause the solidarity pact that has
been in place since 1993, and say their intention is to force the
smaller states into accepting a reorganization.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-5>
<H1>
Fall conference of German bishops
</H1>
According to reports from the Bishops' Conference, discussions by
the bishops concerning the future of consultations for pregnant
women have become extremely arduous. In Fulda this afternoon the
spokesperson for the Conference, Hammerschmidt, said the bishops are
struggling to find a solution they can all agree on. Observers said
this was the most difficult position in which the Catholic Church
has found itself since the end of World War II. For the moment, it
seems certain there will be some sort of transition period before
the dioceses finally stop issuing counseling certificates. The
Vatican has called on the bishops to put an end to legally
recognized pregnancy counseling.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-6>
<H1>
LWS scandal continues
</H1>
On the third day of the CSU parliamentary faction retreat in the
Upper Franconian monastery of Banz, the LWS scandal and its effect
on the CSU's work is again the central focus. The former Bavarian
Minister of Justice, Sauter, had defended himself just prior to the
conference against the impression that he was isolated from his
faction. "The others say we need a different communication
structure and a different set of relationships as well", said
Sauter. Meanwhile, the Bavarian Green party and the SPD set things
in motion for a committee of inquiry into the LWS scandal. Both
factions decided unanimously at their party retreats to call for an
investigatory committee. CSU faction leader Glueck gave assurances
that his party would participate constructively in such a committee.
At no time should the impression be given that something is being
concealed or swept under the rug, Glueck said. He named the end of
October as the earliest possible start date for an investigation
committee. The chair of the committee will be CSU state member of
parliament Bernhard, and his deputy will be SPD member Gantzer.
According to state SPD head, Schmidt, Bavarian Premier Stoiber holds
primary responsibility for the millions of DM in losses which the
LWS incurred through its risky business practices.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-22-7>
<H1>
Digital breathalyzers inaccurate
</H1>
Police apparently must recheck thousands of cases involving driving
under the influence alcohol. An investigation in North Rhine-
Westphalia revealed that new digital breathalyzers have been
functioning inaccurately. The inaccuracy was the result of a
software failure, which caused the third decimal place to be rounded
up. This had consequences with regard to legally mandated fines and
the issuance of demerits points which could also result in a
suspended drivers license.

