<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-1>
<H1>
Parliament passes part of cost-cutting laws
</H1>
CDU, CSU and FDP members of parliament joined ranks this afternoon and
passed the labour and social part of the controversial cost-cutting laws.
Less sick-pay and less stringent rules for laying-off staff now may become
law as early as of 1 October. The employees' union (DAG) said this was a
black Friday in Germany's social scene, whereas employers spoke of a change
of paradigm for German social politics. All four ballots were by name.
According to government, Germany has to become more attractive for
manufacturing, and that was why public spending had go down, just as the
additional labour-costs. The opposition claimed that the laws were going
to hurt the ones they should not hurt at all: sick or disabled people and
pregnant women.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-2>
<H1>
Bundesbank: government has to stick to saving
</H1>
Government must stick to their cost-cutting, according to the Bundesbank's
latest monthly report. And there is hardly any good news: federal and state
debt is on the rise, the economy is not doing well yet, and employment still
is in the doldrums. That is why drastic saving of money was called for,
according to the keepers of the currency.
The federal deficit at the end of the first 6 months of 1996 amounted to 16.5
billion marks, more than twice as much as last year (same time-frame).
And they would not rule out that debt would reach 4% of GDP within this year,
which would put paid to Germany's endeavours to join the European Currency
Union (according to the Maastricht treaties the upper limit is 3% of GDP).
They blame the measly tax-take, down some 2.6%, the reason being the
depressed state of the economy. And the Bundesbank are not about to paint
a rosy picture for the future either. The economy was not yet getting out of
the trough and into a high, and employment statistics were supporting that.
Another interesting item: foreign investment in Germany has dropped, and so
has investment in Germany by German companies, the latter by one third,
compared to last year's.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-3>
<H1>
First reading of budget 1997
</H1>
There is more strife between government and opposition as far as the 1997
budget is concerned, just like when they discussed the cost-cutting laws.
It passed the first reading around midday. Expenses are to go down 2.5%,
according to Mr Waigel's draft, but the opposition think it's all done with
smoke and mirrors, and they re-stated Mr Waigel had made wrong statements on
purpose. There was a 2-digit billion deficit, and that is why the SPD asked
for a supplementary budget (defeated by government's majority). Mr Diller,
the SPD budget spokes-person, also criticised that the minister was able to
raise additional debt by using credit-lines not used so far - without asking
for parliament's consent. When told that this would be against the
constitution, Mr Waigel replied: "If you think that things are
anti-constitutional, you better go to court." Parliament meanwhile has
referred the budget to select committees. Second and third readings are to
take place at the end of November.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-4>
<H1>
Arrest-warrants for Peter Graf and consultant cancelled
</H1>
The Mannheim Regional Court unexpectedly cancelled the arrest-warrants for
Mr Peter Graf and Mr Joachim Eckhardt. The two men stand trial for
tax-evasion to the tune of millions of marks. So far it is moot if they will
be able to leave jail, and the director of the Mannheim penitentiary so far
has not received any orders to release them. Mr Graf is alleged to have
posted 3 million marks bail. The risk of their absconding has been termed
minimal, according to judge Joachim Blaess. Meanwhile the public prosecutor
has protested, and that has suspended proceedings. Now the Higher Regional
Court will have to decide on the matter.
What reasons may prompt the court to cancel arrest-warrants?
Mainly, if the suspect is less likely to have committed the offence.
That is not the case for the two gentlemen: during the first three days'
depositions hearings they had admitted to, at least partial, involvement in
the tax-schemes. The main reason they had to stay in jail, in the past, was
that they were expected to abscond, and apparently the judges have changed
their mind on that one. And they do not appear to keep thinking that there is
any danger of witness-material disappearing, as the public prosecutors have
already covered a lot of ground.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-5>
<H1>
SPD willing to compromise on bits of Annual Tax Law 97
</H1>
According to Mr Lafontaine, head of the SPD, his party was prepared to
discuss virtually anything, bar child benefits. Government wants to postpone
raising child benefits for a year (was planned for 1997, originally).
He was ready for compromise and hinted at issues such as reducing sick-pay
for public servants, scrapping company tax on value and capital - both
proposals requiring Upper House (Bundesrat) consent. He also wanted
tax-laws to be harmonised within the European Union. Mr Lafontaine was
critical about Germany being the biggest net-payer into the European Union,
whereas her neighbours and fellow-members tempted German tax-payers with
their countries' tax-havens

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-6>
<H1>
FDP wants to scrap general awards
</H1>
The FDP wants to scrap general awards (covering a whole industry,
regardless of geographical or other criteria). And they also back proposals
to temporarily extend the weekly work-week to 42 hours.


<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-7>
<H1>
Teufel: major effort of Baden-Wuerttemberg government
</H1>
According to state premier Teufel, this was the biggest
cost-cutting exercise in the state's history. A 2.5 billion mark deficit
looming in the state's 65 billion budget had been plugged. Additional debt
would go down from 1.7 to 1.6 billion marks this year, as planned. The
biggest cuts, according to Mr Teufel, were in expenses for government staff,
subsidies for school-busing and construction-subsidies. And students were
to pay a 100 mark fee for (re)registering at tertiary institutions.
Opposition parties criticised the cost-cutting, and claimed that mainly
families would bear an ever-growing burden.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-8>
<H1>
Berlin's (re)registration fee not illegal
</H1>
The Berlin Administrative Court ruled that collecting a fee of
100 marks for (re)registering at a Berlin tertiary institution (as of
next year's winter-semester), was not breaking the law - according to
yesterday's edition of the newspaper DER TAGESSPIEGEL. The fee was on top of
the usual fees for student-council membership and others. It is
controversial for two reasons: first, universities and other tertiary
schools do not get any additional revenue (the same amount of money had
already been slashed from their budgets); and second, administrative costs
for (re)registration were estimated to be only 35 marks/student.
The court, however, thought that the Berlin law to get their budget into
sync had higher priority, and having fees match actual costs consequently
ranked lower. With the court's consent students will appeal the verdict,
as the matter needs to be clarified for thousands of other pending cases.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-9>
<H1>
Bonn tries to amend German-Tchechoslovakian declaration
</H1>
Federal government is looking for a date to talk about amending the planned
German-Tchechoslovakian declaration. Today Mr Erdmann, of the Foreign
Ministry, said in Bonn that some two or three minor issues still needed
clarification. The declaration was to be signed until the end of this year.
Expatriates' representatives (Germans expelled from Tchechoslovakia during
and after WWII) would be briefed, as in the past. Mr Erdmann emphasised that
at yesterday's meeting with Chancellor  Kohl, they had agreed to handle the
matter on a confidential basis.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-10>
<H1>
Volkswagen takes EU to court
</H1>
Volkswagen also went to (the European) court, and it was about the subsidies
paid to them by the Saxony government.The European Commission had previously
declared that they had no right to pay out the subsidies. Volkswagen now
claimed that the European Commission had not interpreted the EU-law properly.
And they also stated, that their decision was against the principle of
protecting the ones who acted in good faith. Yesterday Bonn and Brussels had
taken each other to court.
Saxony had paid out 91 million marks in subsidies, moneys not authorised by
the European Commission.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-11>
<H1>
Compact for apprenticeships in North-Rhine/Westphalia
</H1>
Business and politicians signed a compact to guarantee apprenticeships
to all young candidates, and, according to the minister of economics, Mr
Clement, they mean to honour this pledge as early as this year. The compacts
will make sure all young persons, who have not got an apprenticeship with
a company until 15 October, will be trained by the authorities themselves.
Ms Mathiesen, head of the SPD parliamentary group, said that this was
unique in the Federal Republic of Germany. The compact was put together by
state government, chambers of commerce, unions, employment service and
community federations.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-12>
<H1>
North-Rhine/Westphalia government knew about WestLB investigations
</H1>
North-Rhine/Westphalia's state government apparently knew about the
tax-office's investigations into the WESTDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK (WestLB). On
Tuesday some 600 tax-investigators and public prosecutors had started
looking through files at WestLB branches. Bank staff are alleged to have
helped clients transfer money to foreign accounts, to save German tax.
Several members of state government would have known about it, but, would
have kept things under wraps (usual practice under the circumstances).
State premier Rau, of the SPD, said there was no wrong-doing, neither by
him nor his staff. The CDU-party, however, are in opposition to the SPD
(in North-Rhine/Westphalia's parliament), and crying foul.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-13>
<H1>
Mr Voss re-confirmed as head of SWF radio and television
</H1>
This afternoon a large majority of votes confirmed Mr Peter
Voss as head of SUEDWESTFUNK radio and television, for another four
year-term (43 ayes, 5 noes and 1 invalid vote). All representatives were for
the re-organisation of radio and television in Baden-Wuerttemberg and
Rhineland-Palatine, as proposed by Messrs Voss and Fuenfgeld in a paper.
And they thought it was a good basis for further negotiations.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-14>
<H1>
Stock and foreign exchange
</H1>
There were gains on the German stock exchanges today. The DAX went
up almost 26 points and reached close to 2596 points. Trade in bonds was
brisk. The US-dollar was traded at more than 1.51 marks.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-13-15>
<H1>
The weather
</H1>
Frequent showers, in the Alps plenty of rain. Snow above 1000 metres.
Night-time temperatures from 4 to 11 degrees, day-time temperatures
tomorrow from 8 to 16 degrees, close to the Alps 8 degrees Celsius.
The forecast: only slow decrease of cloud-cover and rain, starting in the
North-west. On Monday, fine dry weather in western and north-western areas.
Temperatures rising slowly. Likelihood of hoar-frost at night.

