<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-1>
<H1>
Commemorative service for Ignatz Bubis
</H1>
Frankfurt on Main. German President Johannes Rau, Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder and high-ranking Jewish officials have commemorated the late
president of the German Jewish Council Ignatz Bubis. The official
commemorative service took place in the Frankfurt West End Synagogue. More
than 1000 guests were taking part. In his address Chancellor Schroeder
praised Bubis' merits. His death was a painful loss for the country,
Schroeder said. Earlier, representatives of the Jewish Council had stressed
that Bubis had worked for reconciliation between Germans and Jews like no
one else. Bubis died on August 13 in Frankfurt at the age of 72 and was
buried in Israel shortly after. The service took place after the 30-day
mourning period.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-2>
<H1>
Government wants to limit competition for electrical power
</H1>
The federal government wants to limit again the competition for
electrical power. Deputy SPD faction leader Ernst Schwanhold referred to a
compromise suggested by Economics Minister Werner Mueller. The compromise
specifies that municipalities will regain the power to decide whether
individuals and small companies may choose their power provider. Only
industrial companies remain free to choose their provider. Schwanhold
announced an agreement for no later than next week. B90/G, CDU/CSU and FDP
are against the changes. Utility group RWE called the competition
restrictions "absurd". Power utility Bayernwerk called it a violation of EU
law. Even the municipalities criticize the SPD plans. The federation of
municipal companies stated that its members want to face the competition.
This would include private households and small companies. However, the
federation demanded equal start conditions for competition. The co
operation of consumer federations recommended power subscribers to read the
fineprint of the contracts before switching to a different power supplier.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-3>
<H1>
SPD and CDU negotiate Grand Coalition.
</H1>
Ten days after the state elections in Brandenburg the SPD and CDU
factions in Potsdam have definitively cleared the road for coalition
negotiations. In separate meetings the members of parliament voted clearly
in favour of talks for a joint government. The talks are to begin
Wednesday. The CDU's demand for half the minister positions, however, was
immediately rejected by the SPD. The political fate of Social Minister
Hildebrand remains unclear. Ms. Hildebrand does not want to support a CDU
coalition and wants to step down from her cabinet position.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-4>
<H1>
Sulphurous gasoline sanctioned as of 2001
</H1>
Gasoline containing sulphur will cost 3 Pfennigs per litre more
starting November 2001. The federal government has passed a new fuel by-law
stipulating that from that date on gasoline and diesel fuel with a low
content of sulphur will enjoy lower taxes. Environment Minister Juergen
Trittin said that this decision is not only converting EU guidelines into
national law but is also setting a pioneering example within the EU. The
introdution of low-sulphur fuels was another pre-condition to reduce the
emission of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-5>
<H1>
German Rail CEO Ludewig to be replaced at year's end
</H1>
The current president and CEO of Deutsche Bahn AG Johannes Ludewig
will be replaced before the end of his term. Exiting Transportation
Minister Franz Muentefering said this step would give the company the
necessary additional impulses. The new man to head German Rail as of
January 1 will be RWE manager and long-term Airbus president Hartmut
Mehdorn. Mr. Nawrocki, too, manager responsible for long haul
transportation, has to go. Background for the assignment of Mehdorn to head
Deutsche Bahn is supervisory bord president Vogel's dissatisfaction with
the current management. Ludewig, former tenured governmental secretary at
the economics ministry and close friend of former Chancellor Helmut Kohl
has been repeatedly alleged of leadership problems. During his term the
train catastrophe of Eschede and other accidents happened. Several
disruptions and criticisms of bad service and late arrivals gave German
Rail a bad press. Recently, Germn Rail had to admit that their sales
personnel does not know the fares. Only a new computer system to be
introduced in two years will end the confusing fare system. The change of
heads has been welcomed by the railway workers' union and B90/G. The
CDU/CSU faction of the Bundestag, however, criticized the decision
strongly. The deputy faction president Hannelore Roensch stated, Ludewig
had been made the scapegoat for exiting Transportation Minister
Muentefering's neglect. The union of German locomotive drivers stated that
Ludewig's discharge by itself would not change the bad situation of German
Rail. Rather, the competitiveness of the company had to be improved.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-6>
<H1>
More talks on SPD savings policy
</H1>
After the SPD's election defeats, criticism on Chancellor Schroeder
is growing in the party's left wing and the new members of parliament.  The
representative of the "Frankfurter Kreis" von Larcher, demanded a
substantial offer to the party. More talks are needed on the savings
package. The Thuringian representative Richter said that the SPD has to
decide if they will side with the minority in east Germany with Schroeder's
"New Centre", or if they plan to support the majority and thus the working
population.  However, after a meeting with Chancellor Schroeder,
representatives of both the left- and right-wing SPD reached an agreement
on a common savings policy. After a two hour talk in the chancellory, the
representative for the conservative "Seeheimer Kreis" Karl-Hermann Haag
said the faction's unity is solid. The savings package, the pension and
health reforms will be supported in parliament. The representative for the
parliamentary left wing, SPD-second-in-command Mueller called the
consolidation of the budget fundamental for government action. According to
him, united action is called for on this issue.  Mueller conceded however,
that there are still divided opinions on isolated questions within both
wings of the party.  In the future regular meetings to allow an exchange of
ideas will be held. At the suggestion of Chancellor Schroeder an empowered
committee will be created to that end, in order to better coordinate the
workings of party, faction and government and to function as a form of
warning system for possible problems.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-7>
<H1>
Muentefering persists in plan to instate close friend as SPD-party whip
</H1>
The future SPD Secretary-General Muentefering has brought a close
friend from the ministry of transport to the party top. On his
recommendation, the designation of former government secretary Matthias
Machnich (sp?) to future party whip was confirmed by the SPD-presidium.
Muentefering's former position as minister of building, construction and
transport will be temporarily filled by the minister for the environment
Trittin until the State Premier of Saarland Klimmt, who was voted out of
office, transfers to the Berlin department.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-8>
<H1>
Election debacle: SPD in Thuringia wants to elect new committee
</H1>
As a result of the defeats in the regional elections on Sunday, the
Thuringian SPD want to elect a new party committee. According to regional
chairman Dewes, a party conference will be held in november to address the
issue. Dewes emphasized that the proposed candidates will only be chosen
from the party ranks and not from the previous committee.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-9>
<H1>
Savings&loans associations of Baden and Wuerttemberg merge
</H1>
The savings&loans associations of Baden and
Wuerttemberg have agreed on their merger. The fusion was approved by a
large majority at separate representative gatherings in Neuhausen and
Bruchsal. The new association will come into being on the 1st of January,
2001, with headquarters in Stuttgart and a branch in Mannheim. With a
balance of 256 billion DM it will be the nation's second largest
savings&loans association. The fusion was also approved today in Stuttgart
and Karlsruhe.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-14-10>
<H1>
Daimler-Chrysler: high development investments
</H1>
According to a newspaper report, Daimler-Chrysler plans to
invest approximately 88 billion DM in new models the coming three years.
The British Financial Times reports that Daimler-Chrysler plans to bring 64
new cars and utility vehicles onto the market up until 2004. According to
other news reports, Mercedes-Benz take on Smart as their future small cars
model.

