<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-1>
<H1>
Grohr will not be banished to Bavaria
</H1>
The refutation was almost as quick as the news itself. This morning a
newspaper reported that Austrian Cardinal Hans Hermann Grohr would be
banished to Bavaria. A spokeswoman of the Benedictine Abbey in
Frauenchiemsee, Bavaria, simply commented "This is a definite hoax" when
asked by ARD reporters. Thus, it remains unclear where the Church will send
the former Archbishop of Vienna who is alleged to have sexually harassed
pupils and monks.
For several days now the Austrian media have speculated about where the
undesired Cardinal would be sent. It has been suggested that he might be
sent to Panonhalma, Hungary, or the Frauenchiemsee Abbey. The latter, at
least, turned out to be wrong. For years, Grohr has been alleged of sexual
harassment of his subordinate Brothers. Therefore, the Lower Austrian
Benedictine Cloister Goettweig had been visited by a Vatican delegation.
The results of the visitation is still being discussed in the Vatican. The
Grohr affair has caused one of the largest crises of the Catholic Church in
Austria. Years of silence about the actions by the controversial St.
Poelten bishop Kurt Grenn have caused a wave of outrage. Austria is waiting
for a solution of the Grohr case and there are indications that it is tied
to a solution in the Grenn case. Grenn is the last hardliner among the
Austrian bishops who is still backing Grohr. The Pope, however, is the only
instance who can judge Grohr. Rumour has that the Cardinal will be
excommunicated, but the Pope's decision is still officially waiting.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-2>
<H1>
Stihl expects change of trend
</H1>
The president of the German Chambers of Commerce Hans-Peter Stihl expects
that the number of unemployed will decrease this year by 200,000. This is
in line with what Dieter Hundt, president of the German Confederation of
Employers had prognosed. Stihl said in an interview that the reduction
marked a trend change on the job market. At the same time he rejected
criticism that the industry was just trying to back the government. Stihl
said the industrial associations had always been criticizing that the
reforms have been too slow and too small.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-3>
<H1>
Construction industry slows economic boom
</H1>
The German Construction Industry Alliance assumes that the German
construction industry will hit the bottom of the recession this year. Mr.
Eichbauer, the alliance's president said this was at least true for West
Germany. Matters were worse in East Germany. There, the downward trend
would continue and investments into new buildings would decline again by 4
per cent. This bust cycle in the construction industry would significantly
dampen the economic growth of the whole industry in Germany. Eichbauer
expects that 70,000 jobs will be lost in the East German construction
industry this year.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-4>
<H1>
Discussion about Toepfer's pay
</H1>
How much money has received former Construction Minister Klaus Toepfer as
compensation from the German government before he became UN Commissioner
and what pension claims can he make due to his time as a minister? These
questions are the hot topic in Bonn. The government remains low key. It is
only saying that the top-up is not violating UN code. Meanwhile, the
Foreign Ministry has confirmed that the former minister did receive a
one-time payment before he started his job at the UN. But the government
remains silent about the amount. Rumours have it that the payment was
120,000 DM, exactly the amount that would make up the difference between
his earnings as a minister and as a UN official in Nairobi where Toepfer
also has to pay lower taxes. Government spokesman Peter Hausman pointed out
that, in turn, Toepfer had higher expenses in in Nairobi because he has to
shuttle between Nairobi, New York and his family who stayed in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-5>
<H1>
Petrol prices a topic for election campaigns
</H1>
The Christian-Democrats want to make gas prices a topic for the election
campaign. CDU Secretary-General Peter Hintze said his party would use
stickers, posters and flyers near gas stations to challenge the Greens'
intent to raise the gas price to 5 DM per litre [within the next 10 years]
if the Greens form a coalition [with the SPD after the next general
elections]. He said a red-green coalition would be expensive for Germany.
SPD executive officer Muentefering commented that Hintze's announcement was
a sign of helplessness. Muentefering said everyone knows that the SPD would
not subscribe to such a drastic increase. He added that 5 million
unemployed would not find a single suggestion in this cheap campaign that
could solve the largest problem of the society. Buendnis90/Die Gruenen
accused the CDU of pub mentality.

<DOC de-news-1998-03-13-6>
<H1>
German tourist murdered
</H1>
A German tourist from Hildesheim has been murdered in her holiday home at
the Kenyan coast. Police report that burglars had entered the house near
Mombasa and stabbed the woman before they took money and valuables. This
was the third time within four weeks that a tourist in Kenya fell victim to
violent crimes.

