<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-1>
<H1>
First Round
</H1>
First, they will have to agree on a time-table, and according to
federal SPD manager Muentefering, procedural issues will be dealt with
for starters. After that, talks will first concentrate on employment and
the economy. The SPD warned the Greens against asking for the moon.
After all, the SPD got 40.9% of the votes, compared to the Greens' 6.7%,
which would be reflected in the coalition document. Several Greens
politicians, however, emphasised that their party would have to leave quite
a visible 'footprint' in the coalition document, and that they were talking
between equals. The Greens will stress items such as ecological taxes,
getting rid of nuclear power plants and reforming the law on citizenship.
In spite of a tight schedule, both sides apparently want to get their first
federal coalition document done properly and meticulously. Before getting
into the nitty-gritty, both sides stated that they would be ready to
compromise.


<P>
According to federal SPD-manager Muentefering the election results make it
obvious who will call the tune. He refuted claims by the Greens that
the magnetic levitation train (Transrapid) be canned, as well as their
request to get out of nuclear power generation as fast as possible.

<P>
Financial experts of both parties are to be present at all talks, that's
the first item both parties agreed on. They also agreed on opening the
books, according to head of the SPD Lafontaine: " We need to open the books
because firstly, new risks have surfaced which the outgoing government
hadn't covered in their draft budget 1999, and secondly because in view of
the current economic situation in the rest of the world, it would be prudent
to also consider growth projections with a grain of salt."

<P>
Federal manager of the Greens Trittin agreed: "There wouldn't be money for
all the projects the incoming government wanted to tackle. But they would
definitely pay for an emergency program to fight youth unemployment, using
the Federal Labour Agency's (Bundesanstalt fuer Arbeit) current account.
"We'll rip into employing and training 100,000 young persons straight
away, and we will not make that depend on a 'Treaty for Work'. That's
an emergency measure we will not compromise on, complementing the
'Treaty for Work'. No way would it contradict the 'Treaty for Work' in
any respect.

<P>
Today, both sides had a short look at all the issues, including the
controversial ones. According to Mr Lafontaine, bones of contention could be
the speed of getting out of nuclear power generation, and ecological taxes.
Talks will resume on Wednesday. The working groups will have done their bit
till then

<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-2>
<H1>
First contacts in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania's Schwerin
</H1>
The SPD was a winner in the Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania state elections
and now is looking for a coalition partner. A day after first talks with the
CDU, they will meet the PDS today. The latter seem to disagree mainly on
financial matters.

<P>
While SPD and CDU largely agree on finance, the PDS did not. State premier
designate Ringstorf would not be drawn on which party he would prefer. Prior
to the election he had declared that the CDU would be unable to form a
coalition, whereas the PDS would be unable to govern. Today's talks with the
PDS have not brought any decision, though Mr Ringstorf stated that they
agreed on social policies as well as reforms on a federal level.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-3>
<H1>
Debate in CDU party
</H1>
The young turks in the CDU party apparently want to keep the pot boiling as
far as talks about the old guard's stepping down, to be replaced by a
younger generation, were concerned. State head of the party Mueller,
Saarland, said that it wasn't enough to replace the head of the party by the
head of the parliamentary group Schaeuble. The party had to do something
about their social profile. It wasn't enough if the party was only seen to
be economically competent. Saxony's Economic Minister Sommer asked the
federal party to show no consideration and get rid of outgoing chancellor
Kohl and his friends immediately. According to Mr Sommer, a situation where
Mr Kohl thought he could nominate his successor by decree, was impossible
and unacceptable.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-4>
<H1>
Soldier taken to court for violent video
</H1>
The Zwickau public prosecutor now charged a former soldier. The man had taken
part in several (private) videos glorifying violence and featuring
right-wing tendencies. He also passed them on to a TV-station. He now
will have to answer charges of displaying symbols belonging to
banned organisations and sedition. The public prosecutor had spent almost
a year investigating six members of the Schneeberg Alpine Battalion, but
only one of them will be charged, that's the one who offered the video to a
private TV-station. They singled out him because the other soldiers had
intended to keep the video as a private souvenir about their time in the
armed forces, whereas the defendant had wanted it 'published'.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-5>
<H1>
Drug-dealer gang cracked
</H1>
The Ansbach CIB has cracked a drug dealer gang. According to police, the
youngest member was only 13 years old, and had been selling approximately
700 grams of hashish in primary and secondary schools in the Ansbach district.
The gang comprised 9 dealers, who have been arrested. They had sold a total
of six kilograms of amphetamines, five kilograms of hashish and 600 Extacy
pills. Most of the drugs came from the Netherlands.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-02-6>
<H1>
German share-prices keep falling
</H1>
Uncertainty about the crises of the world markets fuelled the falls, plus
the fear of more losses of banks who bought into shaky funds. Analyst
now will refrain from predicting share-prices for the next weeks.

<P>
Other European stock exchanges show the same symptoms: share-prices keep
falling. Most share-price indicators now are lower than they were at the
start of this year. The exchange-rate of the US dollar also took a dive
to 1.63 marks/dollar. Money is getting out of shares and into bonds,
where there are substantial gains.

