<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-1>
<H1>
Demonstration for the extradition of Oecalan
</H1>
In Germany, 18,000 former Turkish citizens gathered in several cities
to protest against the PKK and to demand the extradition of Oecalan to
Turkey. Federal Foreign Minister Fischer has traveled Italy to meet
with Italian government officials on the situation. Talks with Italian
Minister President Dalema and Foreign Minister Dini also focused on the
Oecalan case. Yesterday, Federal Chancellor Schroeder announced that
Germany would not apply for extradition. According to Italian newspapers,
the Italian government would like the PKK head to be deported as a
"persona non grata" to Spain, Austria, or Russia. Italy will not extradite
Oecalan to Turkey because the death penalty is still imposed there.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-2>
<H1>
Harsh criticism of Greens proposal
</H1>
The SPD has decidedly rejected the demand by Greens faction head
Kerstin Mueller to raise gasoline prices yet again. Mr. Stuck, SPD
faction chairman, stated that the debate should end immediately. His
deputy Schwanhold recommended that the party simply ignore the latest
demand from the Greens. Mr. Poss, SPD finance specialist, opined that
it makes no sense to confuse the public every day with new proposals.
Mr. Glogowsky, minister president of Lower Saxony, warned the federal
Greens about a possible violation of the conditions of the SPD/Greens
coalition. Mr. Glogowsky continued that there is already a definite
agreement to raise gas prices by six pfennigs. Mr. Mueller suggested
raising gas prices by another ten pfennigs in the second and third phase
of the environmental tax reform.
This move would make it possible to finance the further decrease in
non-wage labor costs by 0.8% after the year 2000 as agreed upon by the
coalition. According to Mr. Mueller's estimates, approximately 15 billion
marks will be needed for this project from energy taxes while an oil tax
of 10 pfennigs more per liter of gasoline would bring in approximately eight
billion marks.
After Germany, in the lower middle of Europe, implements a higher oil
tax, a rise in oil taxes throughout Europe would be called for, he
continued. SPD faction head Struck announced that phase one of the
environmental tax should be in place by April 1, 1999. Next spring, the
EU and its German president would have to set up new Europe-wide
regulations on energy taxation. For this reason, any new attempts to
rise energy taxes solely on the national level are out of the question,
according to Mr. Struck. The Economics Minister of the North Rhine/
Westphalia, Mr. Steinbrueck, told "Der Spiegel" that the VAT should be
raised in the next two years in order to finance tax breaks for middlesized companies.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-3>
<H1>
Pensions at 60
</H1>
In Bonn, a conflict is brewing over proposed pension age of sixty.
Rezzo Schlauch, Greens faction head, stated that the project is not
feasible from a financial point of view and would bankrupt the pension
fund in a single blow.
On the other hand, Federal Labor Minister Riester stated that he has
already drafted a finance plan. Mr. Riester suggested using tariff
funds to finance pensions at an earlier age some time ago. In an
interview, he has now revealed concrete figures. Employees should
forego a pay raise of 1% in tariff negotiation rounds. This money would
be placed in a special fund to finance pensions at age 60. According to
Riester, this model is cost-effective.
The goal of this model is not to make 60 the official retirement age for all
employees. Both the trade unions and the federal government
would simply like to give workers the opportunity to retire early to
make jobs available for younger workers. Mr. Mai, OeTV head, was in
favor of this plan for early pensions. Employers were basically in
agreement as well. Mr. von Wartenberg, executive secretary of the
Federal Association of German Industry, stated that financing the plan
with tariff funds is a sensible instrument of employment policy. The
employers, in turn, would not be required to guarantee employment to
younger workers. Mr. Riester would like to present the finance model to
the Chancellor on December 7th. According to "Der Spiegel", the negotiation
round is to be called the "Union for Employment, Education and Competition"
as a concession to employers.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-4>
<H1>
1999 federal budget billions short
</H1>
According to a report in the German weekly "Der Spiegel", the German
federal budget for 1999 is short 20 billion marks. The debts incurred
by the Kohl government, equaling 10 billion marks, were added to an
additional 10 billion to cover future projects of the new government.
"Der Spiegel" cites calculations by the Ministry of Finance in its report.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-5>
<H1>
National congress of the Young Union
</H1>
The Young Union began their congress yesterday in Weiden with the theme,
"The Role of the Young Union in Terms of the Opposition and Europe." The
organization, an offshoot of the CDU and CSU, convened for its national
congress. The guest speaker was Edmund Stoiber, minister president of
Bavaria. He reminded the delegates about the need for a politics for the
people. Mr. Stoiber is decidedly against Bonn's plans to create a new law
regarding foreign citizens living in Germany. He explained that the
majority of the population is against easing naturalization restrictions
and dual citizenship for foreigners citizens.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-6>
<H1>
New state chair of the Bavarian FDP
</H1>
The Bavarian FDP has a new state chair. The state party congress of the
liberal party convened in Bad Kissingen in Lower Franconia and elected
entrepreneur Hermann Stuetzer as the successor to Max Stadler. After a poor
showing among the liberals in Bavaria, Mr. Stadler announced his
resignation. Today, he assumed responsibility for debts amounting to almost
700,000 marks, accumulated by the Bavarian FDP during his term of office.

<DOC de-news-1998-11-28-7>
<H1>
Fatal shots in Munich apartment
</H1>
According to police reports, a patrol was dispatched to a Munich
apartment, because a man, age 54, was allegedly planning to commit
suicide. When police officers entered the apartment, the man threatened
them with a knife. His 46-year-old brother attempted to hold him back
and pushed him back into the apartment. When the officers heard screams
inside the apartment, they broke the door open. The older brother again
threatened them. A police officer, age 23, responded by firing two shots.
One brother died on the scene, and the other died shortly thereafter.

