<DOC de-news-1998-10-27-1>
<H1>
Change of government in Bonn
</H1>
Today was an occasion to see Germany's constitution in action. Four weeks
after the general election, the constitutional bodies of the Federal
Republic of Germany carried out the orderly shift from one government to
the next. Most important topic on the agenda was at noon the election of
Gerhard Schroeder as Chancellor. The Social-Democrat was installed into the
most powerful office of the state by a surprisingly strong majority. In
secret ballot he received six votes more than the red-green
(Social-Democrat with Buendnis90/Gruene) coalition has members. Mr.
Schroeder was then appointed by President Roman Herzog and sworn in in
parliament by Parliamentary President Wolfgang Thierse. Finally, the
red-green cabinet consisting of 15 ministers, eleven men and four women,
was formally introduced. President Herzog handed them their installation
certificates and wished them well. A new era of German post-war politics
may begin.

<P>
The addresses of the former and the new chancellors did not take even a
quarter of an hour. Helmut Kohl, obviously touched, wished his successor
Gerhard Schroeder much success and a lucky hand in governing the country.
He, Schroeder, would take over the office in a time with completely
different norms and especially with different challenges than what he,
Kohl, had experienced 16 years ago. Kohl added that in his opinion it made
little sense to always try to rewrite history.
<P>
"You are history" was the new chancellor's answer. According to Gerhard
Schroeder, Kohl showed particular greatness in the hour of his defeat. He
complimented Kohl on the way Kohl had shown that a democratic change is
natural and normal. This had helped all of them. Kohl had talked rightfully
that that had increased Germany's reputation in the world. Schroeder wanted
to put it that simple. Schroeder promised he would mention Kohl honourably
again in his government declaration; but that would be the end of it. Both,
the new and the former chancellor showed humour tonight: the new
chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder, to make the departure more easy for the
leaving chancellor, Helmut Kohl. But this departure was evidently difficult
after 16 years in the chancellor's office that are now over.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-27-2>
<H1>
Head of Hamburg's intelligence service becomes head of federal services
</H1>
Gerhard Schroeder's latest personnel decision was announced this morning.
Hamburg's head of police Ernst Uhrlau will become co-ordinator of the
German secret services. The 51-year-old Social-Democrat who also once
headed Hamburg's domestic intelligence service is succeeding Bernd
Schmidbauer.

<P>
The new Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has personally invited the Hamburg
head of police into his Bonn team where starting next week, Uhrlau will
co-ordinate the work of the domestic, the foreign and the military
intelligence service. In contrast to his predecessor, Uhrlau will have a
lower administrative rank. Even before his selection the Social-Democrat
had counselled the SPD's working group for interior security. For 15 years
Uhrlau has worked for the Hamburg intelligence service, five of which as
its head. He has studied politics at is considered a brilliant analyst and
expert for extremism. Uhrlau did not want to talk yet about his exact
duties but he rejected doubts about the necessity of secret services as
have been voiced in the past by Green politicians. The role of the secret
services would be important even in the European Union. They represented
security services, intelligence services, also as early warning systems of
future developments in Europe or in relation to areas of conflict that were
important for Europe.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-27-3>
<H1>
Karlsruhe turns down the Bavarian special law for abortion
</H1>
The SPD handed in several emergency motions after today's judgement in
Karlsruhe. The government has been asked to immediately withdraw the
Bavarian special laws and not to initiate any further legal steps.
In the morning, the Federal Constitutional Court declared the Bavarian
special law for abortion as being unconstitutional. With this judgement
the judges in Karlsruhe agreed to the action of five medical doctors
against the Bavarian law. After today's judgement the two abortion
specialists, Andreas Freudemann and Friedrich Stapf, can continue to
unrestrictedly ran their practices, where most of the abortion in
Bavaria were done. The requirement of the controversial law to be a
medical specialist will not be valid at least for the two medical
doctors mentioned before. The Federal Constitutional Court declared
the restriction of the admissible income from abortions to a quarter of
the total revenue to be completely invalid. According to the Federal
Constitutional Court, the federal legislator do not allow the states
enough latitude, therefore Bavaria has already exceeded its legislative
competences.
The Bavarian consultation law is not affected by the judgement in
Karlsruhe.

<P>
The judgement is a tough lesson for the Bavarian government.
The Bavarian government has left it open whether they are going
to initiative further steps towards the abortion law. Barbara Stamm
announced that the votes of the three judges who supported the
Bavarian initiative, will be examined very carefully. But one
thing is certain and that is that the dispute about abortion in Bavaria
is not over yet. The SPD announced  several emergency motions in the
Landtag (state parliament). With it the party wants to avoid a further
initiative of the CSU and the state government. The SPD politician,
Renate Schmidt said that it was about time for a law peacetime:
" We ask the Bavarian government to immediately withdraw the Bavarian
special laws and finally to attain a federal legislation also in the
Free State of Bavaria and to take a bit of distance towards all the
initiatives that question the compromise negotiated with difficulty
towards the protection of the unborn child and the legal security of
women." The Greens hope that qualified gynaecologist will be able
to improve their methods of treatment for abortions and therefore
the medical care.

<DOC de-news-1998-10-27-4>
<H1>
Guenter Krause in a catch-22 situation
</H1>
Three warrants have been issued for the former federal minister of
transport's arrest. This was confirmed by the district court in
Rostock. This should force Krause to either pay its debts or to
swear an oath of manifestation. The reason for the legal proceedings
are the financial claims against him from three contracting parties
of the real estate agent company Kraus Aufbau Invest. According to
those claims, the former minister owes them a total of 1.1 million
DM.

