<DOC de-news-1999-09-12-1>
<H1>
Elections in Thuringia and North Rhine-Westphalia
</H1>
Close to 16 million residents were called to elect
local representatives in Thuringia and North Rhine-Westphalia.
Pollsters had predicted losses for the Social-Democrats (SPD) in both
states.

<P>
The Christian Democrats (CDU) gained the absolute majority in the
Thuringia State elections. Their existing coalition partner, the SPD,
even fell behind the Party of Democratic Socialism (PDS). The CDU
attained 51 percent (+ 8.4 %), the SPD lost 11.1 %, dropping down to
18.5 %. The PDS improved by 4.9 % to 21.4 %. All other parties failed
to pass the qualifying 5 percent cut-off by a wide margin.  The CDU
has 50 parliamentary seats compared with 20 seats for the PDS and 18
for the SPD.

<P>
The SPD suffered dramatic losses in North Rhine-Westphalia's local
elections. In Cologne, Duesseldorf, Dortmund and Essen the CDU
defeated the SPD as the number-one political power. However, the
mayors of the most important cities won't be determined until run-off
elections. For example, CDU candidate Mr. Gehrs leads the field after
the initial election. A run-off victory for him would mean a
non-social democrat mayor of Dortmund for the first time in 53 years.

<P>
Voter turn-out declined significantly in both states and apparently
amounted to only 60 percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-12-2>
<H1>
Election feedback
</H1>
The CDU in Thuringia wanted to establish an clear situation, a goal
which they managed to achieve.  The Christian Democrats called their
absolute majority a "magnificent" result. Just like earlier in
Brandenburg and Saarland, the CDU is remaining on its path to success.
The election winner, State Premier Bernhard Vogel of Thuringia said
that "Our focus was on State policy, but we had a good push from Bonn
and Berlin, respectively. We won, yet we also feel the commitment
we've taken on with this victory. It means that we once again have a
vote in the Bundesrat (upper house of parliament) after a five year
absence. After all, we had to do a lot of compromising in the past and
dodge important issues. Now we have a vote again. As far as the
savings proposal is concerned, Mr. Eichel is right, we want to save
money, but we don't want East Germany to have to carry the burden of
having to save more than the West."  However, this would not mean that
the CDU would engage in obstructive politics in the Bundesrat.

<P>
CDU secretary-general Angela Merkel spoke of a marvelous result for
her party. "I believe there are two decisive reasons (for the
victory). Firstly, that Chancellor Schroeder said that building up of
East Germany was his main priority and then he did nothing about it,
or worse, he penalized the people in the East German States ‹
Environment tax, pensions, and ICE (Inner City Express) in Thuringia
on top of it. Secondly, that Mr. Dewes wanted to form a coalition with
the PDS. The people of Thuringia didn't want this and made a clear
decision."

<P>
The SPD, on the other hand, is continuing its downward spiral.
Disappointment reigned among Social Democrats and their top-candidate
Richard Dewes. He hadn't been able to take advantage of his
incumbency. The future SPD secretary-general Franz Muentefering said:
"This is a clear defeat, no if's or but's. It'll now depend on our
ability to find a way to do what we had intended to do but weren't
successful in doing. That is, to convey to the people that what we do
is reasonable. A firm grasp on today, a firm vision for tomorrow. This
means that the things we do today ‹ saving, reorganizing, setting the
tone in politics ‹ will help us fight unemployment, provide young
people with a place to train and make the pension plan durable for
coming generations. And that's the phase we're in right now."

<P>
The PDS result in Thuringia was their best ever for a state election.
"The trend toward us continues," said parliamentary party leader
Gregor Gysi. In contrast, the Green Alliance needs to spend some
serious time thinking about how to regain ground in the East,
according to chairwoman of the executive board, Mrs. Radtke. The Free
Democrats (FDP) have to address themselves to the same issue, as, just
like the Greens, they didn't make it into the Thuringia State
Assembly.

<P>
Today's election results are a bad sign for the SPD for the  upcoming
local elections in North Rhine-Westphalia. State Elections will be
held in May 2000 and the Red/Green Government under State Premier
Wolfgang Clement will have to defend its majority vote. Clement
himself seems unfazed and says "These were local elections that just
happened, however, local elections that were influenced not only by
local affairs but also by the political climate at large." Optimism on
the other hand from the state head of the CDU, Juergen Ruettgers who
is already predicting the beginning of the end of SPD rule in the
state North Rhine-Westphalia.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-12-3>
<H1>
New conflict anticipated in the counseling of pregnant women
</H1>
A new conflict regarding the counseling of pregnant women is looming
over the Catholic Church of Germany. According to German law, pregnant
women wanting a legal abortion have to attend  counseling at a
"pregnancy counseling center" to obtain the necessary certificate for
an abortion. The Catholic Church had originall yagreed to participate
in this program. However, according to the "Tagesschau" (a German news
program), the Archbishop Meissner of Cologne now no longer supports
the compromise hashed out by Catholic bishops in June. Evidently,
Meissner and several other bishops want the Catholic Church to
completely withdraw from the counseling program. The bishops had
originally proposed in June that the program be continued. However,
they are now heeding the Pope's express wish that they do not do so.
The certificates issued by Catholic Church now have an appendix
stating that the certificate does not entitle the holder to have a
legal abortion.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-12-4>
<H1>
Annual commemoration held in the German Alps
</H1>
Accidents in the Bavarian Alps have claimed
149 lives in 1997 and 1998. This was reported by Minister of the
Interior, Mr. Beckstein, at an annual commemoration (Gatterlmesse) on
the Zugspitze, the summit of the tallest mountain in the German Alps.
The Gatterlmesse was first celebrated in memory of a border patrol
officer who was killed by an  avalanche in 1952.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-12-5>
<H1>
Formula 1: German double victory in Monza
</H1>
Heinz-Harald Frentzen has won the Grand Prix of Monza. He won a
convincing victory beating Ralf Schumacher driving Williams. The man
from Gladbach who is now third in the overall ratings with 50 points
(after Hakkinen and Irvine) benefited from  World Champion Mika
Hakkinen's bad luck. Hakkinen, who had been leading the race, had to
withdraw in the 29th round.  Mika Salo driving Ferrari secured 3rd
place. Eddi Irvine finished sixth and collected one point, thus
closing in on Mika Hakkinen (both with 60 points).

