<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-1>
<H1>
Compromise on letter-post monopoly rejected
</H1>
The Bonn's coalition compromise on the conditions for a letter-post
monopoly of German Post has been rejected by German Post and postal unions.
Restricting the monopoly to letters less than 100 g would have dire
consequences the company stated today in Bonn. Thousands of jobs would be
in danger. The remaining monopoly would also be too small to come up for
the company pensions of about DM5 billion per year. It would be unavoidable
to increase the costs for letters.
The German Postal Association called the compromise a "first-rate job
killer". The President of the German Postal Union, Mr. van Haren, called on
the oppositional SPD to turn down such a bill in the Bundesrat [the upper
house of parliament where Social-Democrats have a majority].
Post Minister Wolfgang Boetsch rejected the criticism last night in Bonn.
When the Federal Post was divided into [mail, bank, and telecommunication]
sections for privatization the company should have known at the latest that
a conversion to a joint-stock company would be followed by market
liberalizations.
Representatives of CDU/CSU and FDP had agreed on giving German Post a
five-year monopoly moratorium for the delivery of letters weighing up to
100 g. Bulk mail is exempted from the monopoly.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-2>
<H1>
German car industry increasingly affected by Spanish trucker strike
</H1>
The German automobile industry is increasingly affected by the strike of
Spanish truckers. The main Opel plant in Ruesselsheim recorded major
production interruptions. The company assumes that by the end of the week
all subsidiary plants will be concerned. This would mean that 11,000
vehicles could not be built and that about 20,000 employees had to take
forced holiday.
Volkswagen in Wolfsburg had reduced the production of the Polo make already
on the weekend. Tomorrow, it will shut down completely. Audi has not stated
any limitations yet.
Spanish truckers demand cheaper fuel, the acknowledgement of job-related
illnesses, and the reduction of retirement age to 60 years. They will stop
the strike only when the government in Madrid fulfils all demands.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-3>
<H1>
Bonn in favour of quick rule on tracking of cattle
</H1>
A certificate of origin for beef suggested by the mad-cow-disease scandal
remains controversial within the European Union. The Netherlands Union
Presidency stated last night the EU Ministers of Agriculture were unable to
agree on labelling. The issue will be decided on the next agro-council in
March.
A certificate of origin and a computerized labelling of animals is to
instill consumers lost confidence in beef. According to the German
delegation the questions of when to introduce the measure and whether
labelling was to be compulsory were controversial. Bonn wants a regulation
in effect by January 1998. A compromise calls for the compulsory
introduction of labelling of beef by the end of the decade.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-4>
<H1>
Decision on health reform adjourned indefinitely
</H1>
Opinions about the planned health reform are still widely divergent within
the government coalition. Therefore, the decision about Health Minister
Horst Seehofer's model which was scheduled for today had been postponed
indefinitely.
Seehofer and the Liberals work jointly for future increases of health
insurance contributions to be paid by employees only and not be shared by
half with the employers [as it is right now].
This meets strong resistance by welfare politicians within the Christian
Union. Vice chair of the Union faction, Heiner Geissler, fears that
Seehofer's model lacks a brake for contribution increases.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-5>
<H1>
Talks between Kinkel and Primakov about Partnership for Security
</H1>
After his talk with Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeni Primakov German
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel announced that Russia and NATO intend to have
the planned Partnership for Security initialed by summer.
However, Russia still opposes a planned extension of NATO eastwards. In
June, NATO wants to decide finally on accepting new members from Central
and Eastern Europe.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-6>
<H1>
Municipalities in Hesse must pay for Bosnian refugees
</H1>
Hesse's municipalities must continue to pay for the costs of Bosnian civil
war refugees staying in the State of Hesse and cannot ask to be reimbursed
by the state. This was the ruling of Hesse's Administrative Court in
proceedings started by the City of Frankfurt and the Main-Kinzig District.
The Court rejected the action on formal grounds and did not allow any
appeals.
The plaintiffs wanted the court to rule on the constitutionality of a
decision by the Conference of Interior Ministers. In 1992 the Conference
had approved a toleration of refugees from the former Yugoslavia. But only
if the Conference had issued residence permits the federal states would
have had to reimburse the costs. The judges found the municipalities could
not demand temporary residence permits for refugees.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-7>
<H1>
Protests against nuclear waste transports to Gorleben
</H1>
This morning, anti-nuclear activists attacked the buildings of Hamburg
Power Plant, Dresdner Bank, and German Rail in Hamburg with stones and
paint bags within short time in protest against nuclear waste transports in
CASTOR containers. Meanwhile, there is confusion about the latest CASTOR
transport from the French reconditioning facility to Gorleben. According to
Greenpeace, the transport left this morning but the authorities dispute
this statement. In France, the transport is subject to strict
confidentiality. Officially, there was no confirmation that the German
nuclear waste had left the reconditioning facility on its way to Gorleben.
The Ministries of Interior Affairs of Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bavaria, and
Lower Saxony have also no information about the transport. The CASTOR
transport to the intermediate storage facility in Gorleben is not expected
until two weeks from now. Environment organization Greenpeace France,
however, remains firm: a special train of seven wagons has left the railway
dock. Two cars labelled "TN21" carried CASTOR containers with 1.7 tonnes of
reconditioned nuclear fuel rods mixed with glass six times their weight. In
fact, the train had been waiting since Saturday in Valogne, Normandy, for
the start signal. Apparently the train is now on its way to another
intermediate stop in France.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-8>
<H1>
Catholic bishops discuss Social Paper
</H1>
In their plenary assembly in Landshut the Catholic bishops are discussing
the joint Social Paper with the Evangelical Church. The bishops are dealing
with a 90-page draft. In the draft the churches want to encourage a more
social market economy and more solidarity with the disadvantaged. At the
beginning of the debate, Munich's Cardinal Wetter admonished the people to
be more moderate. According to him "we are living wrong and on cost of the
next generation". He accused the politicians of moral deficits. Budget
deficits that could be closed even in the long run were a sign of a lack of
responsibility.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-9>
<H1>
ARD television wants to re-establish collaboration with Juhnke
</H1>
ARD programme directors have lifted last week's boycott against actor
Harald Juhnke and want to collaborate with him again. The directors
consider the affair settled as Juhnke has apologized in writing to the
black hotel guard, MDR programme director Kellermeyer (sp?) said. According
to newspaper reports the drunk actor had allegedly insulted a black hotel
employee in the US.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-10>
<H1>
Illegally employed construction workers arrested in Mainz
</H1>
Mainz police have preliminary arrested about 20 illegal workers on a Mainz
construction site. More than 250 workers had been scanned in the raid.
Forty-one of the foreign workers did not have a valid work permit, 30 of
those did not even have a residence permit. A police spokesperson stated
that the 250 workers were employed by more than 10 different companies.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-18-11>
<H1>
Tennis: tournaments in Hanover and Antwerp
</H1>
Barbara Rittner was the first German to be eliminated in the WTA tournament
in Hanover. She lost the first-round match against Ruxandra Dragomir from
Romania.
Michael Stich, too, had to leave after the first round. In the Antwerp
tournament he was defeated by Marc-Kevin Goellner. Hendrik Dreekmann who
lost against Javier Sanchez, Spain was also eliminated.
German Nikolaus Kiefer won over Jan Siemerink, Netherlands, and goes on.
Tonight, Boris Becker cancelled his participation in Antwerp due to an
injury of his right wrist.

