<DOC de-news-1998-08-20-1>
<H1>
Mixed feelings for SPD's 100-day program
</H1>
Candidate for Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's starting plan for
the first 100 days of his government - if elected - was received with mixed
reactions.
The plan budgets additional expenditures to the tune of DM 1.5 billion for
growth
promotion and employment. In the Union parties' opinion this is bound
to put a brake on the prime movers of economic upturn and
and to impair needed structural changes. B90/The Greens and
unions, on the other hand, hail the draft. They want the
"alliance for labor" to be treated as a central issue.
The average family are to see their income increased by DM 2,500
through tax reforms; furthermore, pension, sick pay and dental
prostheses are to receive additional funds. All this is qualified by a lot
of "ifs".
An audit of existing resources will have to be made. Economic adviser
Jost Stollmann was conspicuously absent, purportedly due to other
commitments.
Credibility is to be the main aspect of the SPD's initial action plan. On
cultural
matters, Gerhard Schroeder wants to seek a dialogue with the
intellectual community, ending the stand-off between political
power and the Arts.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-20-2>
<H1>
Speed limit might considerably reduce pollutant emmission
</H1>
A speed limit on road traffic might considerably reduce pollutant emmission.
This is the conclusion of a study made by Munich's Ludwig Maximilian
University.
A chemical enigineer collected pollution levels along the Inn valley
Autobahn during
3 years. Along a stretch that was under construction, with speed limited to
60 km/h,
nitrogen values were up to 40% lower than along stretches without a speed
limit.
According to the study, motor traffic is the main source for pollutant
emmissions.
Based on the study, the Bavarian chapter of the Greens party reaffirmed
their
demand for a country-wide general speed limit.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-20-3>
<H1>
First convictions in GDR doping cases
</H1>
For the first time, court proceedings against sport doping
cases in the former GDR resulted in guilty verdicts. 2 medical
doctors and a coach were sentenced to fines for treating
underage female swimming team members with hormone products.
The cases against 2 additional trainers had been dropped by
the Berlin tregional court before the sentences were announced.
The rapid conclusion of the proceedings and the mild sentences
were made possible by the accused's full confession and their
expressions of regret for having submitted their minor charges
to doping. Two TSC coaches were released this morning after having
paid fines of DM 3,000 and DM 7,500, respectively. Their
cases were closed on grounds of insignificance. The remaining
2 medics and another TSV coach were found guilty of corporal lesions
caused to between 7 and 11 underage swimming team girls
and sentenced to fines of DM 7,000 , 7,200 and 27,000, respectively.
The court found sufficient grounds for the sentences in the fact that the
application of doping substances was not medically justified.

