<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-1>
<H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg supplementary budget dispute
</H1>
The opposition parties in Baden-Wurttemberg's Landtag have
strongly criticized the financial policies of the governing CDU/FDP
coalition. Upon presentation of the second supplementary budget for the
current budget year, they approved of the strict limitation of new borrowing,
but said that savings were going to be realized in the wrong place - on the
backs of families. Finance Minister Mayer-Vorfelder defended the budget,
saying it would equal out a shortfall of 1.1 billion marks in state finances,
which was caused primarily by tax losses. Cuts to investments and materials
are expected to yield 800 million marks. Savings on personnel are estimated
at 130 million Marks.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-2>
<H1>
Public Services and Transport Union boss presents 6-point plan
</H1>
The leader of the Union of r Public Services and Transport, May,
has presented a 6-point plan at the union's national convention. The document
outlines the course the union will take in the next four years. May calls for
a new tax system, economic and employment programmes, additional training
positions, and guaranteed continued education for all workers. May stated
that unions should work together in future to assure that work will be fairly
distributed - to which end work-weeks should continue to be shortened,
otherwise the goal of full employment for everyone could never be achieved.
He continued that the help of those who already have jobs was essential.
However May did caution that present wage levels could not be maintained in a
future of fewer work hours.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-3>
<H1>
Criticism after workers' protests
</H1>
Following mass protests against cuts to sick pay, employer
representatives and the CDU/CSU have criticized both employers and unions for
their behaviour. The president of the Baden-Wurttemberg Employers'
Association for the metals industry, Hundt, again rejected the protest action
as illegal. At the same time he criticized the lack of solidarity among
employers. The vice-chairman of the CDU-workers group, Ahrens, warned of an
escalation in the dispute, saying that the employers had started down the
road of confrontation, but the unions had readily followed. He urged both
sides to begin negotiations.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-4>
<H1>
The banking industry: wage negotiations
</H1>
Negotiations on sick pay in the banking industry have been put on
hold, with nothing to show so far. According to the Union for Trade, Banking,
and Insurance, the employee side broke off the talks because employers were
not willing to discuss the possibility of full sick pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-5>
<H1>
Agreement on locally held former-East German debts
</H1>
After months of negotiations, federal, state, and county governments
have agreed that the old debts of East German counties will be taken over by
a special fund. "Old" debt refers to monies which the former East German
government made available to the counties for such things as building schools
and sporting facilities. This agreement means that the counties are
completely absolved of financial responsibility for the debts. The secretary
of the Chancellor's Office, Bohl, after talks with East German politicians
and county groups, gave the total amount of debt in question as 8.4 billion
marks, requiring 630 million marks a year to pay down. The German government
is to pay half, the states together the other half. All participants called
today's agreement a breakthrough. However, the cabinets of the federal
government and the eastern states must still approve the proposal, and the
Bundestag and Bundesrat must pass it as a law.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-6>
<H1>
Lubeck arson trial: witness testimony
</H1>
In the trial concerning a case of arson at a residence for refugees,
witnesses have testified that they saw three young men at the scene after the
fire broke out. The two men told the regional court in Lubeck that there was
a beige Wartburg parked in front of the house, with three young men standing
in front of it. The witnesses said that flames could be seen on the second
floor of the building. The public prosecution is accusing the 20-year-old
defendant, Eid, of starting the fire on the second floor last January. An
expert for the defence has identified the entrance to the building as the
place where the fire started.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-7>
<H1>
Deutscher Dom cathedral reopened
</H1>
Bundestag President Sussmuth has reopened the Deutscher Dom cathedral
in Berlin after more than twelve years of reconstruction work. The
Bundestag's permanent historical exhibition "Questions of German History" now
has a new home there. It had been set up in the Reichstag building until two
years ago, when it was displaced by renovations to make the building the new
seat of the Bundestag

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-8>
<H1>
German Unity Day tomorrow: monument unveiled in Munich
</H1>
As a prelude to official celebrations of German Unity Day, Bavarian
Premier Stoiber has called on Germans in the East and the West to talk to
each other; that is the only way toward inner unity, Stoiber said while
unveiling a new monument. The monument consists of an original piece of the
Berlin Wall. Stoiber said that it had been intentionally placed within sight
of the American consulate, and added "We are well aware how much we owe the
United States for the role it played in the after-war period and in the
process of reunification". Politicians from all parties had earlier used the
occasion of tomorrow's anniversary of German reunification to call for the
completion of that unity. Federal celebrations on the national holiday are
held in the state which is chairing the Bundesrat; this year that is Bavaria.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-02-9>
<H1>
Kohl calls on Germans to help shape the future
</H1>
On the occasion of the anniversary of German reunification, federal
Chancellor Kohl has called on all Germans to help shape the future in peace
and freedom. In a speech which will be broadcast tomorrow, Kohl said "We have
every reason to be confident on our journey into the world of tomorrow". The
Chancellor called reunification one of the very great moments in German
history. He thanked the citizens of former East Germany who protested in
favour of freedom in the fall of 1989. At the same time, Kohl reminded
Germans that building up the eastern states would still take several years
and require great efforts. He said that everyone was aware that there was
still much to do in the united Germany.

