<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-1>
<H1>
Kohl and Clinton favor a strong Europe
</H1>
US President Clinton and Chancellor Kohl have spoken out in favor of a
strong Europe.  At a ceremony at the Berliner Schauspielhaus (Berlin
Theater), Clinton called on the nations of Europe to realize the
vision of a unified continent.  Europe must be structured on the
example of Germany, i.e. united, peaceful, and globally oriented. The
United States would support this process. Clinton paid tribute to
Kohl's service to German unification, and the growing together of
Europe.  The ceremony was in memory of the airlift of 50 years ago
with which USA supplied blockaded West Berlin. Prior to Clinton's
speech, Chancellor Kohl called on Europe and the USA to secure peace
and stability on both continents together. Europe needs a strong
America, and America also needs a strong Europe. However, the
Chancellor added, it would be no "Fortress Europe" with trade barriers
on the EU borders.  He called the USA a model for the economic reforms
in Germany. In the course of the remainder of Clinton's visit, he also
plans to meet with Gerhard Schroeder, the SPD candidate for Chancellor
and current President of the Bundesrat.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-2>
<H1>
SPD won't rule out further cooperation with the PDS
</H1>
After a failed attempt in Saxony-Anhalt to form a government with CDU,
the Social Democrats have not ruled out the prospect of SDP minority
governments with a toleration 'agreement' with the Party for
Democratic Socialism (PDS) in other East German states.  SPD Secretary
General Muentefering told the radio service "Info-Radio
Berlin-Brandenburg" he could imagine the Magdeburg model used in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and Thuringia as well. The SPD leader in
those states, Ringstorf and Dewis (sp?), welcomed Muentefering's
statement.  Representatives of the CDU, CSU, and FDP continued their
criticisms against the Social Democrats for associating themselves
with the successors of the SED (Socialist Unity Party of Germany, the
former ruling party of East Germany).  In Saxony-Anhalt itself, after
the failure of discussions with the CDU, State Premier Hoeppner
presented the outline of a program for an SPD minority government.
The central focus must be the creation and protection of jobs, he
said.  Furthermore, Hoeppner stressed he has had good experiences so
far with 'toleration' from the PDS, but he has nothing against support
from the side of the CDU.  CDU faction leader Bergner called Hoeppners
program a propaganda-filled evasive manuever, and a declaration of
empty generalities.  It contains no specific approach to solving the
problems of Saxony-Anhalt.  The first session of the new legislature
in Magdeburg is set for the 25th of May.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-3>
<H1>
Weizsaecker calls for PDS to be given responsiblity
</H1>
Former German President von Weizsaecker has said that the PDS should
not in principle be denied political responsiblity.  The decision of
the Social Democrats in Saxony-Anhalt to tolerate the PDS is
understandable, and to a certain extent also correct, said Weizsaecker
to the newspaper "Sueddeutsche Zeitung." He would have preferred it
however, if an actual coalition had been formed with the PDS.  Such an
alliance would have to be proceeded by a statement from the
PDSleadership regarding German unity and their past in the German
Democratic Republic (GDR), stressed the CDU politician.  Coalitions
with the PDS will only be possible when that party distances itself
from the injustice,arbitrariness and spying that took place in the
GDR.  Futhermore, they should not continue to generate anti-western
sentiments.  It is possible that PDS Chair Lothar Bisky could give
such an explanation, stated the former President.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-4>
<H1>
Alliance 90/Greens pass election program
</H1>
In Bonn, the executive council of Alliance 90/The Greens decided on
the outline of a short prospectus for the Bundestag election campaign.
On June 7th, it is due to be considered by the party committee
(Laenderrat).  A party spokesperson stressed that the outline contains
departures from the decisions of the last national conference in
Magdeburg.  Thus the program,which is entitled "Four Years to a New
Political Beginning", contains no mention of the long term gasoline
price target of 5 DM.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-5>
<H1>
European parliament approves tobacco advertisment ban
</H1>
The European parliament has agreed to a prohibition on tobacco
advertising.  The majority of the delegates approved guidelines which
had been adopted by the council of ministers over the objections of
Germany and Austria.  According to the provisions, all kinds of direct
advertising of tobacco will be forbidden starting in the year 2002.
In 2006 at the latest, tobacco firms will no longer be able to
advertise their products at large gatherings like sporting events.
Bonn continues its posture of refusal.  Federal Minister of Health
Seehofer let it be known that he reserves the right to lodge a
complaint with the European Court of Justice.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-6>
<H1>
Printing industry reaches wage settlement
</H1>
The negotiating parties in the German printing industry agreed to a
new collective wage agreement this evening in Mainz.  As a result, the
200,000 industry workers will receive a 2% increase in income,
retroactive to April 1st.  The new agreement will last 12 months.
About 3000 workers engaged in token strikes on Tuesday and Wednesday,
in order to motivate employeers to improve their original offer of
1.5%.  IG Medien, the industry union, had originally asked for 5%.
Union chief Hensche said the gains were meager, but were a reflection
of the difficult situation in the industry.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-13-7>
<H1>
Weather
</H1>
Cooler sea air from Scandinavia is flowing into northern and eastern
Germany, reaching the southwest by Friday.  Forecast: heavy rain
clouds in Vils and the Bavarian forest, and especially in the
Boehmerwald localized thunderstorms, also scattered showers.  Night
time lows from 4 to 15 degrees.  Tomorrow continued sun in all
locations, cooler with highs between 15 and 25 degrees.  The outlook:
sunny, starting Saturday in the central mountain region, isolated
showers or thunderstorms possible, highs between 16 and 23 degrees.

