<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-1>
<H1>
Primakov has no success as mediator
</H1>
Russian premier Primakov's try to act as mediator in the Kosovo conflict
was to no avail. Chancellor Schroeder said he could not see a basis for a
political Kosovo solution in Yugoslav president Milosevic's pronouncements.
He stressed this was his personal opinion, but he was sure his NATO
partners would think alike.
Following a one hour meeting with Primakov, Schroeder said the main
point was stopping the Kosovo genocide. He added that he had made
Primakov understand that the one aim of the NATO bombings was to
forestall a humanitarian catastrophe.
Defense minister Scharping had stated in advance of the Primakov -
Milosevic talks that the bombings would stop only if and when Yugoslav
troops were pulled out of Kosovo and the Yugoslav president showed clear
willingness to sign a peace treaty. Primakov had spent six hours today
talking with Milosevic. Arriving in Bonn, he said Milosevic was willing to
talk provided NATO stopped the bombings.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-2>
<H1>
No indictments for preparing a war of aggression
</H1>
The federal prosecutor's office will not follow up on complaints
referring to preparation of a war of aggression. The office called NATO
intervention in Kosovo an action of crisis management serving peace
among nations and therefore would not order any investigation. Several
pacifist organizations had filed complaints based on art. 80 of the German
penal code which outlaws preparing a war of aggression.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-3>
<H1>
Calls for fair distribution of Kosovo refugees
</H1>
Mr. Penner, chairman of the Bundestag internal affairs committee,
is doubtful about the feasibility of an agreement among EU member states
regarding fair distribution of Kosovo refugees. In an interview to the daily
"Frankfurter Rundschau", the SPD politician said any hope in that direction
would be negligence. Should minister for internal affairs Schily succeed in
establishing an inter-European refugee policy, he would be ripe to appear on
the stage as a magician, Penner said. Most countries were hoping to manage
to steer clear of refugees.
Baden-Wuerttemberg's minister for internal affairs, Schaeuble, this morning
had demanded a fair distribution of the burden among German states and
within the EU. According to the UN refugee organization UNHCR, tens of
thousands of Kosovians are on the run. A UNHCR spokesman said over radio
Deutschlandfunk that it became ever clearer that Serbs were systematically
expelling Kosovo-Albanians. The number of refugees would foreseeably rise
within the days to come. Albania's ambassador to Germany had gone public
on ARD-TV this morning asking for financial and humanitarian help for coping
with refugees from Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-4>
<H1>
Railwaymen's union elect Hansen new chairman
</H1>
The railwaymen's union elected former vice-chairman Norbert
Hansen to the chair. His predecessor, Rudi Schaefer, did not run for reasons
of advanced age. In his acceptance speech, Hansen said his first priority
would be preserving job positions in the railway sector. He will also try for a
unified pay scale. The railwaymen's union counts roughly 350,000 members

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-5>
<H1>
Banking industry salary negotiations break down
</H1>
The salary negotiations for approx. 470,000 bank employees broke
down after 12 hours of negotiations. According to both sides, no agreement
could be reached regarding work on Saturdays, although they did agree on a
general opening. The unions rejected the demands of the employers to make
Saturday a regular working day. The question of the 13th month salary [usually
considered vacation and holiday pay] was also a point of contention. The
employers are demanding expanding working hours to include Saturdays as
well as cutting the 13th month salary. The unions rejected these demands,
however, they announced that they were in agreement with the employers'
salary requirements. The employers had offered a pay raise of 3.1 percent.
After the renewed breakdown in the negotiations, the unions have announced
that they intend to continue their strikes.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-6>
<H1>
PKK officials forfeit right to asylum
</H1>
Officials of the forbidden Kurdish worker party PKK do not have any
right to asylum in Germany. The German Supreme Administrative Court in
Berlin turned down the asylum requests and special protection against
deportation of two Kurds. However, according to the court's judgement, the
PKK officials can only be deported if they are not being threatened with
torture or a death sentence in Turkey. In another principle judgement, the
Supreme Administrative Court determined that PKK supporters can not lose
their deportation protection because they have participated in forbidden
demonstrations or regularly donate money for the Kurdish organization. The
CDU/CSU parliamentary fraction demanded that PKK officials be immediately
deported from Germany after the judgement was announced. A spokesman
for Amnesty International explained that the court had clarified that normal
sympathizers can not lose asylum.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-7>
<H1>
DGB welcomes Riester's suggestion regarding a minimum pension
</H1>
The German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) welcomed the
minimum pension plans that were announced by Federal Minister of
Employment, Mr. Riester. However, the acting DGB chairman, Mr. Engelen-
Kefer, said in an interview with the "Neue Osnabruecker Zeitung" that the
resulting costs of over three billion German Marks may not burden the pension
contributors, but instead should be paid out of the federal budget. Riester had
reaffirmed his intentions to expand the pension system to introduce a needoriented basic security.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-8>
<H1>
Life sentence for the double murderer from Sennewitz
</H1>
The double murderer from Sennewitz received a life sentence. The
Regional Court in Halle found 51-year-old Bernd Buech guilty in two counts
of murder as well as counts for blackmail and robbery, kidnapping and rape.
The court ordered the prisoner submit to preventative detention once he has
sat out his prison sentence. Buech escaped from a psychiatric clinic in North
Rhine-Westphalia last April and then murdered a man and his mother in
Sennewitz as well as raping the wife and daughter of the victim several times.

<DOC de-news-1999-03-30-9>
<H1>
Many Greens leave the party in protest to NATO attacks
</H1>
According to the Wednesday edition of the "Sueddeutsche Zeitung",
several Bavarian Green politicians have left their party in protest of NATO air
strikes. Among those leaving the party is the former Parliament representative,
Halo Seibold, who became known for her demands to limit private airplane trips
in Germany.

