<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-1>
<H1>
Government and metals union move closer in pension debate
</H1>
The federal government and the IG Metall union have moved closer together in
their positions on the question of pensioned retirement at age 60. Federal
Labour Minister Walter Riester, following a top-level meeting with the
unions and the old-age pension insurers in Munich, said he would support the
union's proposal in the "Alliance for Employment". He added, however, that
it must be shown that pension contributions would not rise, but rather that
the plan could be financed by means of a special fund. The details of that
fund would have to be worked out between employers and unions. The
government would then not tax the reserves. The proposal allows those who
have paid into the pension scheme for 35 years to retire with a full pension
at the age of 60.
Employers reject the proposal; without their agreement, it will never become
reality. They especially object to the creation of a wage fund.
CDU/CSU and FDP politicians are saying that retirement at 60 would be, as
far as the labour market is concerned, nonsense; for the pension system,
disastrous.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-2>
<H1>
Standard of living in East and West likely uneven for a long time
</H1>
Ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the federal government expects
the equalization of the standard of living between the East and the West to
take a long time yet. That is the assessment made in the yearly report on
the progress of German unity, passed by the cabinet today in Berlin. The
report names as the most important challenge in realizing unity the fight
against unemployment in the East. The government is pumping a total of 40
billion DM in the "Rebuild the East" (Aufbau Ost) project this year.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-3>
<H1>
Stolpe and Biedenkopf reconfirmed in office
</H1>
The premiers of Brandenburg and Saxony, Manfred Stolpe and Kurt Biedenkopf,
have been reconfirmed in their offices by the newly-elected parliaments of
their respective states. In Potsdam, Stolpe (SPD) received 58
representatives' votes, out of a total possible 88. In Dresden, Biedenkopf
(CDU) received 75 votes in favour, and 4 against. This is the third term in
office for both men. Stolpe has already named his cabinet, which consists of
5 members of the SPD, and 4 of the CDU. The distribution of ministries in
Saxony is not yet known.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-4>
<H1>
Premier Vogel makes inaugural speech in Thuringia
</H1>
The CDU government in Thuringia will spend the next 5 years cleaning up its
finances and securing jobs. State Premier Bernhard Vogel said in his
inaugural speech before the Landtag in Erfurt that his government's goal was
to decrease the deficit on an on-going basis. He said this would also
involve a close look at the states personnel costs. He also wanted to make
employment in the state more secure. Vogel announced a special program for
older people who have been unemployed for some time.
The CDU won an absolute majority in the state parliament, with 51 percent,
in the recent state election.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-5>
<H1>
Conflict within industry over Transrapid
</H1>
Following discussions among the politicians, and the criticism of the
railway, now the concerned industries are embroiled in a dispute over the
construction of the Transrapid magnetic rail link. The Adtranz company today
confirmed statements by its head, Rolf Eckrodt, calling for an immediate end
to the project. Eckrodt said there was no future for the project under the
given conditions. Adtranz is one of the three companies involved in the
project. The Thyssen-Krupp company, on the other hand, wants to go ahead
with the construction, saying that Eckrodt's comments was contrary to all
the agreements already made. According to Thyssen-Krupp, the Transrapid can
very well go ahead without Adtranz.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-6>
<H1>
Lafontaine officially releases book at Book Fair
</H1>
Former SPD leader Oskar Lafontaine has accused the federal government of
Gerhard Schroeder of abandoning social democratic values. He also said that
the government is not steadfast enough against the international financial
markets. Lafontaine made the comments as he officially launched his book
"The Heart Beats on the Left" at the Frankfurt Book Fair. Lafontaine warned
his party against pursuing a set of policies too friendly to business, such
as the one laid out in the Schroeder-Blair Paper. Lafontaine announced he
would soon immerse himself again in the political debate within the SPD.

<DOC de-news-1999-10-13-7>
<H1>
Fischer to visit Moscow to discuss Chechenya
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer will go to Moscow on Thursday to
take part in discussions about the situation in Chechenya. Working with his
Russian counterpart, Fischer will attempt to find a way of working towards
defusing the conflict and achieving a political solution.
There were reports out of Chechenya again today of heavy fighting there. The
Russian air force increased the strength of its attacks on rebel positions.
As regards the refugee problem, a government spokesman in Moscow said that
Russia no longer rejects foreign aid for the refugees.

