<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-1>
<H1>
State premiers stick to spelling-reform
</H1>
Wrapping up their meeting in Stuttgart, the state premiers also
discussed the planned opening of the EU to include former Communist
countries. That could happen quite quickly, according to their resolution,
albeit candidates would have to get initiated gradually. At the
same time they wanted to have a say in matters concerning EU-subsidies.
And they also dug into the spelling-reform. The heads of state backed the
reform, and stated that there was no need for either a compact signed by all
the states or a law. Language was a dynamic process defying all attempts to
control it, according to Mr Erwin Teufel, the current president of the state
premiers' conference. Though we should stay open to proposals for amendments,
and that was why there would be talks with both houses of parliament. The
state premiers also agreed to put in writing that the use of the Internet to
listen to the radio/watch TV would not attract any licence-fees until the
year 2003. They also were in favour of digital multimedia as that would
be good for consumers.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-2>
<H1>
Scandal about armed forces brutality video triggers calls for consequences
</H1>
The discovery of another video glorifying brutality poured oil on the flames
of the discussion about how to handle right-wing radicals in the armed
forces. A spokes-person for the Defence Ministry said that they needed more
data to vet recruits' backgrounds. The SPD-party declared that they did not
believe in one-off events any more: these new videos had been recorded more
than two years ago. Mr Marienfeld, special commissioner for the armed
forces, asked for more supervision of conscripts. He said that the armed
forces had had a marked increase in right-wing radical incidents lately.
SPD-politicians also asked why the shots had taken several years to surface.
Defence Minister Ruehe's theory that it was all a one-off event, was not to
be taken seriously any more. Spokes-persons for the ministry said that the
fact that officers had taken part as well had added a new dimension. The
footage fills eight hours, shot between 1993 and 1995, 45 minutes
of which show soldiers raising their right arms for the so-called
Hitler's salute, and related right-wing radical emblems. Defence Minister
Ruehe kicked off another attempt to detect eventual trouble-makers
early on. Minister of Justice Schmidt-Jortzig of the FDP, however, is still
against obtaining data from future conscripts' criminal register.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-3>
<H1>
Apprenticeship justifies stay of conscription
</H1>
If a conscript has been offered an apprenticeship he may obtain a stay,
according to the Federal Administrative Court in Berlin, but this is subject
to certain conditions. The apprenticeship takes precedence, even if it has
not been taken up yet. One of the conditions is that the apprenticeship is
more than likely to 'get lost' if the applicant were to join the armed forces
first. As there are few apprenticeships and jobs in general, this would
justify a stay. Case in point: a young candidate from Lower Saxony had been
offered an apprenticeship with German Post. He will have to prove that he
would lose the apprenticeship if he did his military service first.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-4>
<H1>
Mr Fischer wants his party to stop bickering about their manifest
</H1>
Mr Joschka Fischer, speaker for the Greens' parliamentary group, asked his
party to stop the infighting and bickering about a party manifest for the
upcoming federal elections. On television he stated that goals such as
disbanding NATO were unrealistic. Discussions about this issue would also
hurt the party. "We, the Greens, have stuck to our knitting and kicked off a
public debate that apparently hurts us more than our political enemies.
There are some valid points, but politics is about things that can be done,
not proclaiming what's impossible. I don't think long-range goals should be
in a manifest."

<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-5>
<H1>
State party conference of Baden-Wuerttemberg CDU
</H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg's state premier Erwin Teufel will keep his job as
head of the local CDU, according to the vast majority of the delegates at
the state party conference in Rust. Chancellor Kohl and head of the CDU/CSU
parliamentary group Schaeuble were also present. The latter were being
watched pretty closely, but Mr Teufel set the cat among the pigeons openly
tackling the issue of succession (Mr Schaeuble has been called the
'eternal successor'): "The Baden-Wuerttemberg CDU backs Mr Helmut Kohl and
also without any ifs and buts his running for Chancellor at the 1998 federal
elections!" didn't draw much of an applause. The delegates were a lot more
enthusiastic when he addressed Mr Schaeuble, and there was quite a bit of
cheering for him. In spite of Mr Schaeuble apparently attracting more votes
than Mr Kohl, the party cannot have two candidates for the same position
- a 1998-one and one for later on, whenever that may be.

<DOC de-news-1997-10-24-6>
<H1>
As of 1998 there will be lump-sum subsidies only for dental treatment
</H1>
So far health insurers pay a percentage of actual costs. The new system is
still being fine-tuned, but dentists already have given it the green light.
This is to put a cap on costs. Inexpensive treatment will set benchmarks.
If you, for example, prefer to have a ceramic filling instead of the
run-of-the-mill one, you will end up paying more. Nothing has been finalised
so far, but arbitration agencies expect a huge rise in dissatisfied
patients.

