<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-1>
<H1>
German politicians criticize EU Central Bank president compromise
</H1>
The compromise solution around the presidency of the European Central
Bank reached by the Brussels EU-summit has roused criticism within
Germany. SPD's Europe specialist Wieczorek in an interview to
Berlin's daily BZ said electing the Netherlands' Duisenberg with an
understanding that he would resign after 4 years' tenure was "legal
trickery".
In the opinion of Bavarian state premier Stoiber, the solution casts
a shadow over the start of monetary union. Hacks (sp?), chairman of
the Economic Advisory Council, also voiced reserves. Federal
Chancellor Kohl called the bickering around the presidency
"uncommonly annoying". After a conference of the CDU directorate he
stressed that "Duisenberg was elected for the statutory 8-year
period. Duisenberg did declare during the summit conference that in
view of his age he might not be available for the full period, but it
will be Duisenberg's own decision when he will hand over his office
to his French successor." Kohl also said he did not believe that
Franco-German relations were permanently damaged by the discord.
SPD circles talked of a Kohl defeat in the matter. Candidate for the
chancellorship Schroeder, talking to ZDF-TV tonight, said the outcome
of the summit was not to be considered a prime performance by
European politics and has contributed to further reduce Kohl's
authority.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-2>
<H1>
Lafontaine in favor of tax-subsidized minimum retirement pay
</H1>
SPD chairman Lafontaine seconds the proposal made by IG-Metall's
[union for metal, engineering and electronics] vice-chairman Riester
to establish a minimum retirement pay level to be subsidized through
tax funds. According to Lafontaine, Riester is in total accord with
the decisions contained in SPD's electoral platform. In case of an
SPD electoral victory, the union leader is earmarked for the office
of minister for labor.
Earlier, SPD specialist for social affairs Urbaniak had chided
Riester, saying that the proposed model was contrary to SPD's basic
retirement plan principles.
Engelen-Kefer, vice-chairman of the DGB [national trade union
federation], had declared there was no way of paying for this kind of
benefit.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-3>
<H1>
FDP presents its electoral platform
</H1>
Educational and financial policies will form the core of the FDP's
electoral campaign. Secretary-general Westerwelle said in Bonn, on
occasion of the presentation of the platform, that educational reform
and reengineering of the tax and social security systems would be
all-important in fighting unemployment. The liberals' aim is to return
to the position of third-ranking power in the Bundestag. In their
platform, the Free Democrats come out for increasing the average
working age. There should be more rigor in the concession of social
aid. They also renewed their demand for dual citizenship up to the
age of 18 for German-born children of resident aliens. The FDP's
platform is to be officially accepted by a party convention come
June.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-4>
<H1>
SPD members of Saxony-Anhalt parliament vote for grand coalition
</H1>
SPD members of Saxony-Anhalt's state parliament have given their
approval to talks with CDU in view of forming the new state
government, although most of them do not favor outright government
coalition in the state. The building-agrarian-ecological trade union
handed the SPD a paper with about 450 signatures against a grand
coalition.
PDS circles accused state premier Hoeppner (SPD) of needlessly
breaking his electoral promise not to join up with CDU. They renewed
their offer of tolerating an SPD minority government as they have
done up to now.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-5>
<H1>
Kanther warns against misuse of asylum rights
</H1>
Minister for interior Kanther has warned against misuse of Germany's
asylum rights legislation. This will not be tolerated and must be
stopped. In all cases of people who received asylum status
voluntarily returning to their countries of origin, returning to
Germany after remaining for some time, cancellation of the asylum
status will be sought. According to Kanther, this has up to now
happened in 113 cases of Iraqi asylants. By their proceeding, they
made clear that they were not politically persecuted in their own
country.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-6>
<H1>
TAZ's East Africa correspondent imprisoned in Congo
</H1>
The East Africa correspondent of Berlin's daily "TAZ", Peter Boehm,
has been imprisoned in the Congo Republic for several weeks now. A
spokesperson for the ministry for exterior in Bonn gave confirmation
to-day that the journalist was arrested in mid-April in the Eastern
part of the country. Efforts by the German embassy in Kinshasa, the
nation's capital, to have Boehm released have up to now been
unsuccessful.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-7>
<H1>
South German roads liberated for traffic after storm damages
</H1>
After the heavy storms over the weekend, police today announced South
German roads were again open for traffic. Numerous roads had been
closed during Saturday and Sunday because of floods and mud
avalanches. State highway 112 in the Glottertal was blocked by mud
and water for almost 24 hours. The Black Forest roads are also back
to normal.

<DOC de-news-1998-05-04-8>
<H1>
Tabloid press blamed after Harmstorf suicide
</H1>
After the suicide of actor Raimund Harmstorf, police and public
prosecution said the tabloid papers were co-responsible for the 57
year old actor's death. Harmstorf had hanged himself in his home near
Kempten on Sunday. According to his friends, a reporter of the Bild-
Zeitung visited Harmstorf at his home on the weekend, putting him
face to face with a report in the Saturday edition of the paper.
This front page report refers to an earlier suicidal attempt, and
'verbatim', to "the terrible decay" of the actor. According to his
friends, Harmstorf was liable to suffer psychotic attacks due to the
medication he had to undergo as a victim of Parkinson's disease.
Harmstorf became popular through the 4-part TV-series "Der Seewolf"
over ZDF network.

