<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-1>
<H1>
New Year's Day addresses
</H1>
Politicians and religious leaders have encouraged the German
people to seek more democracy, confidence in themselves and solidarity.
In his New Year's Day address broadcast on the public "Deutschlandfunk"
radio station, Chancellor Kohl thanked Germans living abroad, who he
said had contributed to their country of origin's high standing. Germans
and German-born citizens had helped shape the economy, cultural life and
society of many countries, he said. SPD leader Lafontaine called on the
nation's youth to join political parties in order to foster
parliamentary democracy. Premier of Saxony Biedenkopf asked Germans in
East and West to find confidence in their own strength. Even though the
eastern Germans could continue to count on western Germans' solidarity,
problems were starting to arise in the "old" states of the former
Federal Republic as well. Ministers of both major churches called on
their flock to find more time for one another.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-2>
<H1>
Netherlands take over EU presidency
</H1>
With the start of the new year, the Netherlands have taken over the
presidency of the European Union from Ireland, as scheduled. The last
time the government in The Hague held the presidency had been in 1991,
when a major reform of the community was put in writing in the
Maastricht treaty. Now the Dutch have high hopes again of associating
one of their cities with such an act of reform. This June, the heads of
state and government leaders of the EU member states are to sign a
treaty in Amsterdam. It will lay the foundations for an extension of the
union towards countries of the former Eastern Bloc and Cyprus. On July
1, the Netherlands will pass the baton to Luxembourg.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-3>
<H1>
Debate over NATO extension towards East
</H1>
Russia plans to make its resistance against any extension of
NATO towards the East the main focus of its foreign policy this year,
presidential adviser Jurikov announced in an interview with the Interfax
wire service today. After all, Russia had ended the Cold War and was
feeling not only threatened but insulted by the planned acceptance as
members of several former nations of the Warsaw Pact. Jurikov would not
rule out that Moscow would make it more difficult to attain a visa if
NATO advanced up to Russia's borders. Foreign Minister Kinkel repeated
his assurance that the desired new security architecture in Europe was
going to be completed with and not without Russia. This meant that the
signing of an agreement at July's NATO summit in Madrid on a stategic
security partnership between NATO and Russia was absolutely vital,
Kinkel told the dpa/adn wire service in Bonn. He also announced that the
first candidates for membership would be named in the Spanish capital.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-4>
<H1>
Defence Minister Ruehe about to leave on visit to US
</H1>
Defence Minister Ruehe will travel to the US on Friday for a
six-day official visit. As announced by the Ministry in Bonn today,
Ruehe will discuss Germany's role in the SFOR stabilising force in
Bosnia with outgoing US Defence Minister Perry. Another topic will be
the NATO extension.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-5>
<H1>
Germany's turn at UN security council comes to an end
</H1>
New York. As scheduled, the UN security council today welcomed five new
non-permanent members. For the next two years, Costa Rica, Japan, Kenya,
Portugal and Sweden will be represented. Along with Honduras, Indonesia,
Botswana and Italy, Germany resigned at the end of the year. The
presidency of this most important one of the United Nations' executive
branches will be held by Japan. The five new members had been elected
last October by the general assembly.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-6>
<H1>
Fight against unemployment number one task in 1997
</H1>
Both employers and trade unions see the lowering of social
security contribution payments as one of the most important policy tasks
in the new year. Employer association president Hundt reminded the
Federal Government of its goal to push social security and related
payments under 40%. Hundt criticised the fact that instead of falling,
these payments had just risen to a record high of 42%. President of the
"DGB" trade union umbrella organisation Schulte said the factor
"labour" was burdened too much in Germany. Both Schulte and Hundt called
for a freeing up of the pensions, health and unemployment insurance
funds from having to fulfill general sevices to the society as well.
Both men made their comments in interviews with the "dpa" wire service.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-7>
<H1>
Economists do not expext drop in unemployment figures
</H1>
The leading German institutes for economic studies do not
expect any reduction of unemployment this year. In a survey by the daily
"Hamburger Abendblatt", the scientists said they thought economic growth
too low to for any new jobs to be created. According to a representative
of the "Deutsches Institut fuer Wirtschaftsforschung", sustained
economic growth at at least 3 to 4% over several years was necessary in
order to revitalise the labour market after a deep recession such as the
one experienced recently. Vice-president of the "HWWA" institute for
economic studies Hans-Eckart Scherrer called for clear and dependable
signals in finance and social policy. New and different daily
announcements by the government caused considerable uncertainty for
investors, Scherrer said.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-8>
<H1>
Germans face increased fees and charges
</H1>
The new year brings increased financial demands on many German
citizens. For example, the contribution to the compulsory pensions
insurance rises by 1.1% to 20.3%. This means additional costs for those
insured and their employers totalling some 16 billion marks. At the same
time, the excess for buying medicine paid for in part by the public
health insurance has been increased. Sick pay has been cut to 70% of
usual before-tax income. There has also been a substantial rise to
realty transfer and inheritance tax. Some tax relief is provided to many
households through the increase in child benefits for the first and
second child by 20 marks each. Capital tax has also been abolished,
benefitting those that actually have capital.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-9>
<H1>
ARD and ZDF broadcasters start joint children's tv channel
</H1>
The public broadcasters ARD and ZDF today at eight in the
morning started their joint children's television channel. The new
channel will transmit eleven hours of films, animation and shows daily.
The children in the audience were asked to phone in their ideas for a
name for the new station. The channel is transmitted by the MDR
broadcaster (part of the ARD) in eastern Germany via satellite and
cable, and is funded by the compulsory licence fee, as it is totally
ad-free. Several private broadcasters have already filed suits against
the project - they are convinced that it violates the mission statement
of ARD and ZDF, which provides for a basic and general service only.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-10>
<H1>
New Year's Eve news round-up
</H1>
The Germans have rung in the new year
with a gigantic fireworks display. Just as last year, they spent 150
million marks on rockets and firecrackers. One of the biggest New Year's
Eve parties took place in Berlin, where some 40.000 braved severe frost
at the Brandenburg Gate. Police said there were almost no incidents to
report, although icy conditions on the roads caused several serious
accidents. 
<P>
In Baden-Wuerttemberg, the number of fireworks-related
injuries fortunately remained low. Three people were injured in the
period between December 28 and January 1. There was property damage
totalling 180.000 marks. 
<P>
In Munich, a 70-year-old man died in an
appartment fire in a multi-storey tenement building. His 45-year-old
daughter suffered severe smoke inhalation. In Dietenhofen/Ansbach, 110
inhabitants of an asylum-seeker hostel had to spend the night in a gym.
Their hostel had been partially destroyed by fire due to causes not yet
known. Frozen water used to douse the flames and the subsequent lack of
power and heating rendered the dwelling inhabitable. Two people
complained of smoke inhalation. In Selb in Upper Franconia, a
21-year-old died when he attempted to use an inflatable rubber dinghy as
a sled to go down the Great Kornberg with three friends.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-11>
<H1>
New Year's Day ski jumping competition in Garmisch-Partenkirchen
</H1>
Primoz Peterka from Slovenia has won the
traditional New Year's Day ski jumping competition in
Garmisch-Partenkirchen. On the Olympic jump, the 17-year-old achieved
117.5 and 118 metres in the second leg of the Four-Jumps-Tour. Andreas
Goldberger (Austria) came second before Takanosu Okabe (Japan). Dieter
Thoma finished in eighth place. Due to today's win, Peterka leads the
overall table, with Thoma now fifth.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-01-12>
<H1>
Weather
</H1>
A low over Scotland extends over the North and Baltic Seas as far as
Poland. Extremely cold continental air continues to enter Germany
between the high and several low-pressure systems over the
Mediterranean. The outer reaches of a Mediterranean low will still
influence southern Germany for part of the day. The forecast: cloudy and
snow showers in the South, fine and only occasional snowfall in the
North. Maximum temperatures -15 to -10 degrees Celsius (5 to 14
Fahrenheit), in coastal areas and along the alpine fringe -9 to -5.
Medium-range forecast: fresh easterly winds and chance of snow in the
South, fine in the North. More extremely cold weather with severe frost
at night and daytime temperatures between -13 and -7 degrees.

