<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-1>
<H1>
House resolution against German government fails
</H1>
A resolution about the alleged intolerance of the German federal
government towards minorities, hence also towards Scientology, failed on
Sunday night in the US House of Representatives. 318 representatives voted
against the assertion that members of Scientology were persecuted because
of their religious beliefs and discriminated in Germany; 101
representatives voted for it. The Congress committee for international
relations had drawn up a resolution one week ago, asking President Bill
Clinton to file a protest with the German government about the alleged
discrimination of members of the sect.
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel and other German politicians had harshly
criticized this draft. During Kinkel's visit to Washington last week, he
addressed the draft at several meetings with members of the Clinton
government, and officially protested the reproaches. At his departure last
Wednesday night, he had received indications that the resolution would not
gain majority in the House of Representatives. This has been confirmed in
last night's vote.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-2>
<H1>
Continuing dispute about pension reform
</H1>
The chances to find a compromise in the dispute about the reform of the
pension system have decreased again. CDU and FDP declared themselves in
favour of commencing the reforms in 1998 instead of 1999. Chairman of the
SPD, Oskar Lafontaine said that pension cutbacks would not be approved by
his party. At the same time, he offered the coalition to increase excise
to allow for a decrease in pension insurance contributions. Lafontaine
also asked the federal government to free the pension system of "outside
benefits" such as pensions for eastern European immigrants of German
ancestry. CSU Chairman and Federal Finance Minister, Theo Waigel said that
a VAT-increase in 1998 is unlikely, and also rejected a higher tax on oil.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-3>
<H1>
Hamburg's SPD unanimously accepts coalition agreement
</H1>
Hamburg's SPD cleared the way for the first red-green coalition in the
Hanseatic city. At a state party conference, the coalition agreement with
the Green-Alternative Party (GAL) was carried unanimously. The delegates
also accepted the proposals for the 8 posts for the Senate which they are
to provide. According to the proposal, Berlin's current Justice Minister
Lore Maria Peschel-Gutzeit is to take over the same post in Hamburg.
Secretary of State Nuehman-Seidebinkel is to replace the designated First
Mayor Ortwin Runde as finance senator. The former minister for urban
development, Thomas Mirow, will be senator of economics. The remaining
SPD-lead departments remain unchanged. The GAL had approved the coalition
contract with a two-thirds majority at a general meeting on Sunday night.
The new Senate has to be approved by the State Parliament on Wednesday.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-4>
<H1>
Increase of MOT fees possible
</H1>
According to several newspaper articles, the federal government wants to
increase MOT fees by up to 40%. Instead of the present average of 55
marks, the major car safety check will then cost 76 marks. The reasons for
the increase are modified processes for testing and examining which
require more time.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-5>
<H1>
Dispute about effect of foreign actions on German Army soldiers
</H1>
Army Priest Oberhern said that in the opinion of catholic priests in the
armed forces, actions of the federal army outside of Germany change the
consciousness of the soldiers. Not only would an emergency case change the
consciousness of soldiers, but it would also attract right-wing-oriented
persons liable for military service. The Federal Ministry of Defence
rejected this opinion, stating that army clergymen in foreign actions in
particular knew that appearance and actions of soldiers promoted the image
of the Federal Army and of Germany. The ministry pointed to Bosnia-
Herzegovina as an example.

<DOC de-news-1997-11-10-6>
<H1>
Soccer: Bremen signs on a new forward player from Ukraine
</H1>
Threatened by relegation from the Upper League, Werder Bremen now has a
new forward player. Currently in penultimate place in the National League,
Bremen signed on the Ukrainian national player Iuri Maximov of Dynamo Kiev.

