<DOC de-news-1998-07-29-1>
<H1>
Newspaper report claims unemployment is rising again
</H1>
A week before the official labour market statistics are due to be
released, there is speculation that the unemployment rate is rising
again in Germany, even in the Western states. The "Stadtanzeiger"
newspaper of Cologne reported a figure of 4.1 million unemployed for
June - up 25,000 over May.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-29-2>
<H1>
EU Commission in Brussels deals with German coal industry
</H1>
The EU Commission in Brussels discussed the German coal industry in
depth today. One major topic was the planned amalgamation of German
businesses involved in the industry to form the German Coal Company
(Deutsche Steinkohle AG); another was a dispute over subsidies.
Following the discussion, all the companies in Germany still involved
in coal mining can now join together. The European Commission did,
however, put some conditions on the founding of the new super-company.
The Saar-Bergwerke must sell off some of their purchasing territory.
According to indications from Brussels, this also applies to certain
storage and transport installations. The Ruhrkohle company has
promised to separate its trade in domestic and imported coal. Federal
Economic Minister Rexrodt welcomed this result of the Commission's
deliberations, saying that the companies and the miners themselves in
the Ruhr and Saar areas now had the necessary security to continue the
process of adaptation, which has already started. However, Rexrodt
criticized another Commission decision requiring two other German coal
mining companies, Preussag Anthracite and Sofia Jakoba, to pay back
over 20 million DM which they received in government subsidies; the
Commission claims that this money was misused to dump heating coal on
the British market at below-market prices and thus threatened the
existence of other mining operations. Commissioner Papuzi said that he
did not want to propose any solutions that would contribute to
unemployment within the European Union, but that state subsidies had
to be made compatible with the principles of European treaties.

<DOC de-news-1998-07-29-3>
<H1>
Tour de France: today's stage doesn't count
</H1>
The seventeenth stage of the Tour de France has been completed, but,
following a strike by participants and the withdrawal of several
teams, its results will not be counted. This decision by the
organizers came in response to several interruptions to today's race,
as well as the leisurely pace adopted by the competitors. Members of
the Dutch TVM team were the first to cross the finish line, riding
side by side and provokingly slowly; they also held hands in a show of
unity. The cyclists in the race were protesting against the
excessively drastic doping controls being exercised by police. They
say they do favour doping controls, but will not be treated like
cattle. There were complaints, for example, that the Dutch TVM team
was questioned for six hours last night with no access to food or
water, and had blood and urine samples taken in a hospital. 
<P>
The German
Telekom team is apparently divided on the question of whether the tour
should be continued. The team captain, Bjane Rijs, speaking once again
on behalf of all participants, initiated today's strike. During
today's ride, Rijs approached Tour Director le Blanc's vehicle and
spoke with him. Following that conversation, the cyclists' strike
began. At the finish line for the day, Rijs made a statement that the
competitors would call off the rest of the race if the "police
incursions" were repeated. Within the German team, however, Rijs is
alone in holding that attitude; other team members such as Erik Zabel
and Udo Boelz have emphasized that they want to continue the race no
matter what. 
<P>
When interviewed, Bjarne Rijs said "I just said to him,
we've had enough right now, the riders don't want to carry on. The
police have got to leave us in peace, and if they don't, then we're
going to stop, we just won't ride any further. It's simply a fact that
that the things that happened to the TWM team last night - it doesn't
matter why they happened, I don't want to make any comment on that at
the moment because I'm not really involved - but if the riders are
just pulled out of the shower, if they're not even allowed to get
dressed, if they're interrogated by the police, if they're forced to
have anal examinations, and urine tests and aren't given anything to
eat until two o'clock in the morning after such a hard stage, well,
those are all the kind of things when we riders are going to say -
that's just too much. And we don't want to be faced with that kind of
treatment."

