<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-1>
<H1>
Ruehe announces further swearing-in ceremonies in Berlin
</H1>
Despite protests against the Bundewehr's controversial public
swearing-in ceremony, Minister of Defense Volker Ruehe has announced
that further ceremonies of this type would take place in Berlin.
Ruehe defended the gathering, calling it a mark of a democratic
culture.  He fiercely criticized the appearance of Green Party
spokesperson Juergen Trittin at the counter-demonstration which had
been arranged by the Greens in conjunction with the Young Socialists
(the youth wing of the SPD), the PDS, and the unions.  Trittin said,
among other things, that those who promote public swearing-in
ceremonies should not be surprised by the presence of right-wing
extremists in the army and in society.  Ruehe said that the conduct of
Alliance 90/The Greens was undignified.  He categorically dismissed
Trittin's criticism that the ceremony is in the Nazi tradition. During
the ceremony, 320 soldiers of the Bundeswehr were sworn in in front of
the Berlin City Hall, amidst loud protests, and with substantial
police protection.  1000 people protested against the gathering; 13
demonstrators were arrested.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-2>
<H1>
Kohl criticizes the DGBs lack of political neutrality
</H1>
Chancellor Kohl has called for the German Federation of Unions (DGB)
to show more neutrality as regards party politics during the election
campaign.  At the DGB national congress, the Chancellor said that the
DGB has subscribed to one-sided positions that call the principle of
unified trade uinons into question.  "I think we should still hold to
a few standards in this argument.  I would be more careful about that"
said Kohl.  It could turn out in the fall, after the elections, said
Kohl, that the unions will have to work with exactly those people that
they are now attacking.  In prior remarks, Kohl thanked the DGB for
their cooperation in 'rebuilding' the eastern states.  The Chancellor
also praised the unions' wage politics.  He has no cause for complaint
as regards the wage agreements of previous years, Kohl said.  In his
keynote address, DGB Chief Dieter Schulte called for political change
in Germany.  The country and society need such a change to fit in with
the changing times, he said.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-3>
<H1>
Foreign Minister Kinkel addresses UN conference on illegal drugs
</H1>
Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel has called on the United Nations drugs
conference to send a determined signal in the fight against illegal
drugs.  Speaking in New York before delegates of more than 180
nations, Kinkel said the cultivation, production, trade and
consumption of drugs must be fought world-wide with still greater
resolve.  The Foreign Minister referred to the fact that in Germany
also the number of first-time users continues to rise, up by 20% in
the past year alone.  At the close of the UN drug conference today a
10 year plan will be approved, which designates among other things
better cooperation between countries on the arrest and conviction of
drug dealers.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-4>
<H1>
93rd German Catholic Conference opens in Mainz
</H1>
The 93rd Catholic Congress was opened today with a call for greater
hope and courage for the new millennium.  Karl Lehmann, chair of the
German Bishops' Conference, said in a speech before the Mainz
cathedral that many people may have lost their illusions; but the
Christian faith provides hope for the future.  Prior to that, the
President of the Central Committee of German Catholics, Maier (sp?),
had criticized the "unrestrained and shameless egotism" in society.
Approximately 40,000 visitors from 35 countries are expected through
Sunday at the conference, which is the largest gathering of Catholic
laity in the world.  Meanwhile, initiatives critical of the church are
promoting internal church reform at a "Fringe Catholic Congress" which
is taking place in parallel with the main one.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-5>
<H1>
Memorial service for victims of the Eschede train accident
</H1>
Today, a week after the severe train accident at Eschede, a
remembrance service has been held for the victims.  State
Parliamentary President Wernstedt (sp?) expressed his sympathies to
the bereaved and honored the efforts of the more than 1000 people who
helped at the scene of the accident.  Subsequently, next of kin, aid
workers, and state parliamentary delegates took part in an ecumenical
memorial service in Hannover. Meanwhile the police again corrected the
death toll of the Eschede accident, from 95 to 99.  In addition, yet
another InterCity Express has had to be stopped.  According to the
newspaper "Hannoversche Allgemeine," the ICE "Hans Holbein" made an
unscheduled stop in Celle at noon on the stretch between Munich and
Hamburg.  The chief conductor had noticed "unusual noises" prior to
stopping.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-10-6>
<H1>
EU Commission to lift ban on British beef
</H1>
The export ban on British beef, which was imposed in 1996 due to the
cattle disease BSE, is to be removed in principle.  The European Union
commission in Brussels proposed allowing the export of meat from
cattle born after August 1st, 1996.  Agriculture Commissioner Fischler
reported that the commission had unanimously approved the proposal.
The export ban was already loosened at the beginning of this month.
The President of the German Farmers' Association, Sonnleitner (sp?),
told the newspaper "Saarbruecker Zeitung" that he sees no danger to
consumers and that we can be sure that only BSE-free beef will be
exported from Great Britain.  Roth-Behrens (sp?), consumer policy
spokesperson for the social democratic faction of the European
Parliament criticized the EU Commission's move as irresponsible.

