<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-1>
<H1>
Chancellor Kohl's visit to Asia
</H1>
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl continued today the private part of his Asia
visit. Yesterday, Kohl travelled to Indonesia and met President Suharto.
The official part will begin tomorrow. Kohl is accompanied by a delegation
of high-ranking delegation of the German industry and three federal
ministers. Federal Minister of Economics Guenter Rexrodt signed an
agreement about three projects in an industrial area east of Jakarta.
Postal Minister Wolfgang Boetsch travelled together with his Indonesian
colleague to western Java to open a factory for the production of fibre
optics cables.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-2>
<H1>
Liberals accuse Waigel of unsound financial politics
</H1>
The FDP has increased its criticism of Finance Minister Theo Waigel. FDP
economics expert Otto Graf Lambsdorff reproached Waigel in the daily
Berliner Tagesspiegel with failing to plan ahead in his financial policy.
The budget deficit will presumably reach double-digit billions and surpass
the current estimates of the Finance Minister. Graf Lambsdorff called on
Waigel to present budget drafts that are not obviously illusive from the
start. Already yesterday, FDP secretary-general Wolfgang Gerhardt
reproached the Finance Minister with obfuscating the true budget situation.
Gerhardt said he was fed up with having to discuss new figures each week.

<P>
The Social-Democrats supported the FDP's criticism of Finance Minister
Waigel. Deputy head of the SPD Bundestag faction Ingrid Matthaeus-Maier
called upon the Chancellor to deliver a government declaration on the state
budget. Waigel is the most unreliable Finance Minister in the history of
the federal Republic, Mrs. Matthaeus-Maier said.

<P>
 CSU secretary-general Bernd Protzner has refuted allegations by FDP
against Finance Minister Theo Waigel. In an interview Portzner said, the
one-sided allegations against Waigel are unfounded as so far finance policy
has been decided jointly within the coalition. This was especially true for
the current budget.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-3>
<H1>
Federal Bank president expects one per cent economic growth
</H1>
Federal Bank president Hans Tietmeyer expects at least one per cent
economic growth for the current year. In a radio interview he said this as
not a strong increase but it was a start. He sees good chances that the
trend picks up in 1997. Tietmeyer stated further that because of the
increasing debts Germany will not meet the Maastricht criteria for the
European Monetary Union this year. The Federal Bank president advocated to
continue with the budget consolidation. However, he strictly opposes
selling gold reserves of the Federal Bank to decrease the deficit. Foreign
countries could take such a step as a sign of weakness and set the German
Mark under pressure.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-4>
<H1>
Metal and engineering union discusses demands for higher wages
</H1>
After the collective bargaining in the metal and engineering industry has
failed, the metal and engineering union IG Metall discusses higher demands
for wages in the collective bargaining for 1997. A union spokesperson
explained that the employers had refused agreements about securing
employment. The union's offer to be content with two per cent inflation
adjustment, however, was linked to measures to secure employment.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-5>
<H1>
Alliance90/Greens in favour of IFOR extension in Bosnia
</H1>
Sager, spokeswoman of the Alliance90/Greens executive board called for
an extension of the IFOR mission in Bosnia with the participation of the
German armed forces. After returning from a visit to Bosnia Ms. Sager said
in a radio interview on Deutschlandfunk everyone she had talked to on site
had advocated the Bundeswehr's participation in the international peace
force.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-6>
<H1>
Construction minister wants to give renting code a work-over
</H1>
Federal Minister for Construction and Housing Klaus Toepfer said a
work-over of the renting code was urgent. By now the renting code had
become so complicated that one needed an expert lawyer to understand it,
Toepfer said on Deutschlandfunk radio. It was now necessary to make the
code more clear and tear down clauses that slow down investments in housing
construction. The more housing was available the better the protection of
tenants could be guaranteed. In view of the latest suggestions by the
Liberals Toepfer repeated that the social aspect of the renting code was
not at disposal. Housing was not only an economic commodity but also a
social commodity.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-7>
<H1>
Kanther wants to have the government shelter renovated
</H1>
According to information by the tabloid Bild am Sonntag Federal Interior
Minister Manfred Kanther wants to have the government air-raid shelter in
the Eifel mountains renovated. [The Eifel mountains are in western Germany,
close to the Luxembourg border.] The costs of about DM177 million have
already been approved by the responsible Bundestag committee. Work on the
shelter is expected to take ten years. SPD and FDP have criticized
Kanther's project. The president of the Bundestag's interior affairs
committee, Mr. Penner (SPD), said a government shelter should be close to
the government which very soon will be in Berlin.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-8>
<H1>
Hundred thousand flats in east Germany polluted by DDT
</H1>
The tabloid "Bild am Sonntag" reported that up to 100,000 flats and town
houses in east Germany are polluted by the insecticide DDT. The paper's
report is based on information by the Renters Association commissioner for
east Germany. DDT had been added at high concentrations to a wood
protection paint widely used in the former GDR. The paint has been in use
until 1990. DDT has been prohibited in West Germany since 1972. According
to the newspaper report affected persons cannot expect financial
compensation because the company that produced the varnish has been
dissolved last spring.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-9>
<H1>
Daylight Saving Time ended last night
</H1>
This year's daylight saving time ended last night. At 3 o'clock clocks were
set back by one hour. In past years daylight saving time ended already on
the last Sunday in September, this year the period was extended to the last
Sunday in October. This also marked the first time that daylight saving
time ended on the same time in member states of the European Union.
[Previously, DST ended on the last Sunday in October in the UK and on the
last Sunday in September in the rest of Europe applying DST.]

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-10>
<H1>
Boris Becker wins Stuttgart ATP tournament
</H1>
Boris Becker has won the ATP tournament in Stuttgart. He beat first-seated
Pete Sampras 3-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, and 6-4. This is Becker's 48. tournament
victory and he moved from rank 6 to rank 3 on the world list.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-11>
<H1>
Weather forecast
</H1>
Current situation: After short ripples of high-pressure subsystems troughs
of low pressure originating from a strong low-pressure system near Scotland
will affect the weather in Germany later this evening and during the night.
The troughs carry sea air from the subtropics. The forecast for today: in
northwestern Germany increasing cloud and rain starting at noon. Elsewhere
cloudy, in the East cloudy and mostly dry. Highs between 12 and 17 degrees.
At night strong clouds. Especially in the northern half rain and wind at
around 30-40 km/h from SW. Lows between 12 and 6. Extended forecast: Monday
strong clouds over northern Germany and rain, highs in the middle teens.
Further south decreasing clouds and increasing temperatures to almost 20
degrees. On Tuesday mostly rain showers and cooler. Strong winds between 40
and 70 km/h from the SW and W.

<DOC de-news-1996-10-27-12>
<H1>
Editorial (SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG): A sovereign who's not ruling
</H1>
By Hans Werner Kilz. 1996 actually should be the year when Helmut Kohl
would - of his own accord - resign. Two years ago, he himself had fanned the
discussion about his resignation, and then quickly put a lid on it. His
designated successor, Mr Wolfgang Schaeuble, had every reason to believe
he'd succeed the Chancellor now, but would have given it a miss some time in
the past, not taking him up on his fuzzy promise.

<P>
At the end of this month, Mr Kohl will have ruled for 14 years, and that's
more than Mr Adenauer did. Foreign countries approach him almost like a
saint, while on the domestic scene, his former enemies of the press, who had
poured scorn on him without really knowing the man, are eating humble pie
and paying their respects to him. Mr Kohl gets the better of all his
opponents, inside and outside the party. The CDU-delegates for the party's
meeting in Hanover will make him president for the 12th time, and there is
no
alternative candidate any more within the CDU/CSU-parties. There is a bit
of grumbling within their own parliamentary group, but anyone daring to rock
this monument of a man would be committing political suicide. Mr Kohl
punishes them all if they don't toe the line, first by withdrawing his
love, and then putting them on the back-burner somewhere in the political
arena. Maybe Mr Kohl is not a politician endowed with imagination, but he is
an extraordinarily skillful one. He accumulates power, something apparently
more important to him than humans. In spite (or just because) of being a
non-mover/shaker in domestic politics, people like him. He is the status quo
in person: things stand still, and that certainly means [political]
majorities. The Chancellor makes people feel at ease. "As long as he's
in charge, we've never ever had a real fright so far", some young people
mention in discussions.

<P>
However, as far as the political future of the country is concerned, this
chancellor hardly calls the tune. The secureness he conveys, is more of a
lullaby. Someone like Mr Kohl, who himself admitted that he always wanted
to know outcomes and results, doesn't like to spearhead movements whose goals
and chances of success are uncertain. Wait and see, watch your back, front
and sides, pull the strings from behind the scene, that's more up his alley,
rather than lead the pack, visible to all, where the colour-bearers are.

<P>
Mr Kohl's government does not provide analyses or concepts for Germany's new
role: for example Germany as the role-model of a modern state, a country
that's still rich, not at war with anyone, a country that mitigates
class-conflicts, invests money in universities and technologies of the
future, defends her social [security] achievements, and - being a stable
democracy - is a reliable partner. And finally, as far as foreign affairs
are concerned, a country that doesn't stagger between her destinies any
more: either being a nation that is part and parcel of a unified Europe,
or rather an unconfirmed heiress to imperial ambitions, i.e. the Houses of
Hohenzollern's or Habsburg's.

<P>
Reluctant and changes his mind

<P>
Mr Kohl thinks in historical concepts, and he has put his mark on German
history. But as he is more concerned with staying in power, the historian
Kohl does away with drafts. Personal character-clashes, and also
electioneering strategies, keep him from doing the right things at the right
time. He unnecessarily procrastinates as far as the reconciliation between
Czechs and Germans is concerned, and it also took him a very long time, and
pressure from the Allies, to recognise Poland's western border, when
the Berlin Wall came down. Admittedly, setting Poland's western border in
stone would have been painful to any German chancellor, [as it meant that
formerly German territories would now be part of Poland for good].

<P>
On the domestic and economic scenes, the chancellor lacks the sixth sense
for problems cropping up. He was far too late realising and taking seriously
the question of financial and social reforms, required to keep German
manufacturers competitive. And, when the big discussion between employers
and unions on paid sick-leave went on recently, his consultants obviously
didn't even know which welfare clauses were part of the awards, and
thus not subject to legislative changes. In hindsight the chancellor appears
to be someone counselling others, keen on re-assurances and changing his own
mind, as he first encouraged employers to cut where it hurt, and
subsequently, after having got plenty of flak, warned against sapping the
base of the welfare state.

<P>
The Golden Section
[mathematical method of dividing a line into two sections]

<P>
He doesn't even want to bother about crises that can't be fixed by
'sitting them out'. For more than a year, the Bareis-commission's proposals
for tax-reform kept gathering dust on the Finance Minister's desk: the
minister had deemed them not viable and put them in the 'too-hard' basket.
Mr Kohl only reacted when pressure from the general public got too high.
He watches coalition partners FDP and CSU lay into each other on the issue of
budget-cuts, waiting till the time's convenient to him to proceed to the
golden section. The king reigns, but he doesn't rule.

<P>
His supporters and admirers suppose that Kohl's do-nothing stance is part
of special leadership-skills. Inability to make decisions is branded
as dextrous tactics, lack of ideas as wise restraint. And his passivity,
his 'sitting out' of issues, is seen as an expression of special power
for integration. Any criticism, even if it comes across as wise and
concerned, gets ignored or discarded.

<P>
This touchy impatience reveals Mr Kohl's biggest shortcoming. If you're
strong, people will contradict you, and you'll bear it. If you're only after
protecting your power, you will be the poorer for it. The praise heaped on
the chancellor who'd masterminded the re-unification, is a thing of the
past, and the growing gap between East- and West-Germans taints his
achievements. He has lost two reliable mates on the way to the unification
of Europe, viz. Francois Mitterand and Felipe Gonzales, a pet project he
pushes on with admirable consistency. Two years before the federal
elections, and that's the sixth time he would be running, Mr Kohl, the last
Eurosaurus, doesn't call the political shots any more. And Mr Chirac, who
is hard to figure out, plus Mr Major, who's in a political stale-mate,
and (who's currently running Italy?) are hardly partners who'd guarantee
to get him closer to his life-time goal, the big family of Europe.

<P>
What if the construction of Europe came to a halt, if the Common Currency
Union had to be postponed? Would Mr Kohl, the European by conviction, then
remain true to his colours and take his hat? Mr Kohl has been caught in the
Adenauer-trap: he could have resigned with full honours, but missed the
right moment for leaving the ship. It would have taken seconds to come up
with names of potential successors, but Mr Kohl wore out all of them.

<P>
Helmut Kohl lacks Helmut Schmidt's worldliness and internationalism,
as well as Willy Brandt's brilliance and intellectual propensity to
discussion. That's the qualities that keep politicians from getting lonely
once they have lost power. Mr Brandt still drew good crowds, even 15 years
after he'd left office. Germans keep thinking so far that Mr Schmidt, the
internationally respected economist, would be far better than Mr Kohl at
handling the re-unification problems. Mr Kohl's trade is being chancellor,
and he's learned that at the coal-face.

<P>
Heads of state do not get voted out because the opposition parties promise
they'd do a better job, but only if and when the people are fed up with them.
Only in case he runs again in 1998, the SPD could dream of a chance of
of having one of their candidates become first Federal Chancellor residing
in the capital of Berlin. [Helmut Schmidt and Willy Brandt were SPD-party
members, in the then capital of Bonn].

