<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-1>
<H1>
CDU retreat near Bonn
</H1>
The board of the CDU has discussed the current directions in tax
and finance policy during its two-day meeting behind closed doors
in Windhagen near Bonn. Chancellor Kohl reassured again that the
value-added tax will not be raised before the next legislature
period. Furthermore, the CDU noted its support of another
chancellor's round of wage negotiations between government,
economy, and unions.
The most important result of the party board's retreat was
announced in the afternoon by secretary general Peter Hinze. He
explained that the party could reach its goal to reduce
unemployment by half, provided that it closely followed the path
for growth and employment outlined in its party program. This
would include decreases in social expenses as well as expenses in
employment programs. Hinze added that one of the main requirements
for the plan's success was that the partners in social programs
participated in its realization. For this reason, Chancellor Kohl
plans to invite both employers and unions to a new chancellor's
round of wage negotiations, provided that all parties were willing
to participate unconditionally.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-2>
<H1>
Retreat of Bavarian SPD Representatives to Federal Government
</H1>
Following the CSU's retreat, the SPD representatives have started
theirs. During the first day of their meeting at the Swabian
monastery "Irsee," the current state group chair Stiegler, as well
as his two vice chairs were re-elected. Earlier, Stiegler had
voiced sharp criticism of the CSU because, as he said, during its
retreat in Wildbad Kreuth, the CSU had avoided the central topic
of unemployment and ways in which it could be overcome. Instead,
the CSU had concentrated its energy on internal disagreements.
Stiegler added that the current government was a coalition of
politicians who were out to consolidate the overall wealth on only
a few. Stiegler considered it audacious of these politicians to
claim their were actually trying to create more jobs. He added
that through their failure to address unemployment issues,
conservatives and liberals had already caused the ruin of the
Weimar republic, an event which must not be repeated.
Topics to be addressed at the SPD retreat, which will end
tomorrow, are a concepts for initiatives for growth and
employment, in order to overcome the massive unemployment rates.
The change in direction of financial politics will entail more
public investments and a stronger employment program.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-3>
<H1>
Reports of Specific Cuts in Social Security
</H1>
A governmental commission of experts is reported to have
drafted specific cuts in social security. The news magazine "Der
Spiegel" reports that pensions of retirees are to be lowered
permanently from 70 to 63 per cent of their former net income. The
news magazine "FOCUS" adds that in the future pensions from life
insurance will have to be taxable. For life insurance policies
that are paid as monthly pensions, 30 per cent, the so-called
"return portion" will be taxable.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-4>
<H1>
Pforzheim Mayor Considers Stuttgart Candidature a Mistake
</H1>
The mayor of Pforzheim, Becker, has officially
distanced himself from his candidature for the office as mayor of
Stuttgart, which he calls a mistake, in retrospect. Becker, who
had only run during the second round of elections, had only
received 3.4 per cent of the vote, while his opponent, follow SPD
member Brechtgen, received 96.5 per cent. Becker joked today that
the Stuttgart voters had re-instated him in his office as
Pforzheim mayor with a majority of 96.5 per cent.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-5>
<H1>
Missing Girl Found Dead
</H1>
The ten-year-old Kim from Lower Saxony, who has been missing since
Thursday, is dead. Her body was found near Amsterdam. Kim was
probably murdered, although the exact cause of death will have to
be determined in an autopsy. Police are now searching for the
driver of a dark blue BMW.
A group of people who was taking a walk had found the body of the
girl in a forested area between Amsterdam and Amstelfen, yesterday
afternoon. They called the police and the federal criminal police
agency informed the police in Varel during the night. The body of
Kim could be identified with the help of relatives.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-11-6>
<H1>
Winter Sports
</H1>
Petra Behle from Willingen and Uschi Diesel from Moosham came out
first and second at the 7.5 km World Cup women's biathlon in
Rupolding. Simone Greiner-Pettermen, who reached ninth place,
managed to maintain her lead position in the overall count for the
general World Cup. In the men's event, Ole Einar Bjoerndalen from
Norway reached first place. Sven Fischer, who came in third in the
biathlon, leads the men's overall rankings.
<P>
Dieter Thoma came in second, after Primos Peterka from Slovenia,
at the World Cup ski jump in Engelberg.

