<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-1>
<H1>
Affirmation of preservation of human rights
</H1>

President Chirac of France praised the European summit as "the end
of Yalta, "that is, the end of the division of Europe sealed by the
Allies after the second world war.  To effectuate this, the heads
of state and government of 40 European states had come to
Strassburg.  This made it the largest summit in the history of
Europe.  It ended at noon on Saturday with the passage of a
declaration of human rights.
The 40 heads of governments passed a political declaration and an
action plan by acclamation.  Their plan calls for the creation of
a court dealing with human rights issues to be in permanent session
and also for the creation of the office of high commissar for human
rights.  In the future, the social development fund of the
European Council is to be dedicated more vigorously to projects for
job creation.  In his closing remarks, French Prime Minister Jospin
referred to overcoming the unemployment of youth as one of the most
significant tasks of the future.  During the Strassburg summit, the
Central-and East-European states made clear that they were ready to
contribute to the future political, economic and cultural
development of Europe. Several countries gave renewed expression to
their wish to join NATO.  The heads of state of Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Georgia and Bosnia-Herzegovina made known that they
were willing to fulfill all the conditions of full membership in
the European Council.  Up until now, these countries
have only enjoyed guest status.  Armenia and Azerbaijan also
declared that they were looking for solutions to the conflict
between their countries.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-2>
<H1>
CDU-Congress to discuss defense and security policies
</H1>

For a long time, there has been a definite date on the
international calendar for the congress of the CSU in Munich to
discuss defense and security policies.  To be sure, its
significance has declined since the end of the cold war.  Although
the congress was one of the few fora in the world where members of
the military and politicians in charge of security matters from
East and West met, there is more emphasis on topics of internal
policy now, as, for example, the future of compulsory military
service.  Saturday's guest speaker was Federal Minister of Defense
Ruehe.  Mr. Ruehe joined his plea for compulsory military service
with a slap at Bonn's Coalition partner, the FDP.  Before the end
of the month, the liberals are supposed to vote on two proposals
concerning the future of the army.  One provides for converting the
federal military into a volunteer army and to discontinue
compulsory military service in 2002.  "We have had enough  radical
changes in the past years and, for that reason, it is important
for the whole thing to come together at this time.  Size, structure
and compulsory service are not to be disposed of. Everyone has to
know that and I hope that the FDP will come to its senses in this
matter."
Besides, the minister of defense expressed his strong support for
the Eurofighter.  Referring to Bosnia, Mr.Ruehe told the ca. 1000
attendees that the federal military was an army of engagement.  "If
we deploy troops, then our best is just good enough; for their own
protection because there will be such deployments.  There will also
be international deployments for fighter planes and then they will
be glad that we have a modern machine."
Like Mr. Ruehe, the former head of NATO, John Galvin, expressed his
appreciation of the German-American partnership.  He stated that
everything should be done to intensify transatlantic relations,
especially in the era of globalization.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-3>
<H1>
Lower Saxony's SPD backs Mr. Schroeder
</H1>

At its state party congress, the SPD of Lower Saxony has united
behind Gerhard Schroeder and selected its minister president its
main candidate for the state's parliamentary election next year.
This election is thought to have great significance in national
politics.  Thus Mr. Schroeder will make his candidacy for the
chancellorship dependent on his showing in Lower Saxony.  95% of
the delegates voted for Mr. Schroeder.  To be sure, with nine votes
in opposition, Mr. Schroeder received a worse result than almost
all the other candidates on the list.  Only the second on the list,
Minister of the Interior Lubowski, did worse with 11 votes in
opposition.  In his speech on principles, Mr. Schroeder warned the
delegates that a popular top candidate was not enough for the
coming election.  Every party member would have to campaign - that,
he said, was the lesson of the election results in Hamburg.
In the matter of the differences concerning a possible
trainee position tax, the delegates moved towards the position of
their top candidate.  Originally the tax was to be demanded
unconditionally in their platform.  In a compromise proposed by the
head of state, the tax is only provided for in case the number of
training positions is permanently insufficient.  The party congress
accepted this course of action.  Mr. Schroeder made a sharp attack
on the federal government. Mr. Kohl's cabinet was worn out, he
stated; it could not lead the country into the next millennium.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-4>
<H1>
Mr. Zwickel: Unions must play an active role in politics
</H1>

The head of the metal union (IG-Metall), Mr. Zwickel, expressly
insists on the obligation of the German unions to play a more
active role in political affairs.  In a contribution to a
newspaper, he also makes demands on the future federal government.
A year before the next parliamentary elections and considering the
record unemployment in Germany, job policies are his main focus.
Job security should be the most important issue of the
parliamentary campaign next year.  During an interview, Mr. Zwickel
stated that approximately 70% of all Germans were afraid to lose
their jobs. And only someone who could take this pressure from
the people might have a chance at forming a new federal government.
But for that to happen, something would have to change in Bonn
because this would not work with the old politics.  And then the
union boss spoke in specifics once again:  the federal government
had tried to fulfill industry's every wish because industry had
promised that there would be more jobs.  But in reality, more and
more people lost their jobs.  He could well imagine that the CDU
would try to distract voters from the failure of its policies
regarding jobs.  To be sure, he had criticism for his own political
corner as well.  Mr. Zwickel emphasized that there were obviously
also enough SPD politicians who considered areas other than
unemployment more important.   But, he said, the metal workers'
union will not simply accept that.  Mr. Zwickel firmly rejected
demands for political neutrality of the unions.  Employees'
organizations in Germany had never been neutral in matters of
politics, he stated.  His exact statement was: we want to be
neither appendages nor transmission belts of a party but that's a
long way from making us political eunuchs.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-5>
<H1>
CSU and CDU renew discussion of the Euro
</H1>

The CSU has distanced itself once again from its sister party, the
CDU, in the debate about the Euro.  At the closed meeting
of the CDU on Saturday in Kreuth, Bavaria's Minister President
Stoiber violently criticized the CDU's party congress proposal
concerning the monetary union.  A new conflict seems to be in the
works for the Union.  At the closed meeting on economy and social
programs, Minister President Stoiber did not make a single
reference to his great annoyance at the new Europe-lead- proposal
of the CDU leadership for the party congress to take place in
Leipzig.  When cameras and microphones were aimed at Party-head
Waigel inside the meeting room, Mr. Stoiber, talking to a news
service, let loose a tirade, stating, if the CDU considered the
timetable for the introduction of the euro more important than
staying within the convergence criteria, this would be in violation
of the joint resolutions of the Union.  That would be a totally
altered situation and a serious breach of trust in the face of the
German people, one in which the CSU would not join, Mr. Stoiber
said.  Confronted by these remarks, CSU-Head and Federal Minister
for Finance Theo Waigel also had something to say.  "The
convergence determines the time table; that's final.  That was
common sense up until now between the CDU and the CSU and we shall
not be partners in any shift in emphasis."   Mr. Waigel confirmed
that the CSU would make a resolution along these lines at its
coming party congress in November and also threw his authority as
federal minister of finance in the balance.  "It's self-
understood," he said, "that the federal minister of finance will be
playing a decisive role throughout the entire process and that no
political, economic or monetary union can be formed against the
federal minister of finance."  The internal discussions of the
closed meeting on economics and social policies in Kreuth are to be
spelled out in political demands by a CDU-commission: for example,
a change of the social systems to prevent abuse.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-6>
<H1>
Mr. Stoiber wants to put stop to abuses of tax relief measures
</H1>

Minister President Stoiber wants to stop the abuses of tax relief.
In an interview with the news magazine DER SPIEGEL, Mr. Stoiber
announced that Bavaria would propose such a law to the upper
chamber of the federal parliament.
<P>
If Bavaria gets its way, then speculation profits would be taxable
in the future.  Businesses would have fewer chances, Mr. Stoiber
said, to deduct losses of foreign subsidiaries in order to save
taxes at home.  On the other hand, the law is also to provide for a
flat capital gains tax of 20%.  This way, Mr. Stoiber explained to
the SPIEGEL, the complicated interest deduction procedure could be
eliminated and, Mr. Stoiber continued, and these were his exact
words, to a greater extent, capital would stay inside Germany  and
the taxes would be paid in Germany.  But the elimination of
loopholes in the German tax system profits little as long as the
German tax payer can invests his capital at a favorable rate in the
other European countries.  Mr. Stoiber therefore directed his
demand to the EU-commission that it should proceed more harshly
against tax dumping in some states.  If tax oases which distort
competition were to be allowed there this would correspond to an
inadmissible subsidy.  The EU would have to put a stop to that.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-7>
<H1>
Formula-I-world championship to be decided at the "green table?"
</H1>

It is possible that the conclusion of the Formula-I world
championship might not be decided on the race course.  The reason
for that is a breach of regulations which top competitor Jacques
Villeneuve committed during training for the grand prize of Suzaka
in Japan and the consequences of which will only be determined
during the next few days in Paris.
<P>
But one thing is sure:  The title will not be bestowed at the Grand
Prix in Japan.  Jacques Villeneuve, disqualified at first, now will
be allowed to start.  Williams appealed the decision so that means
Jacques Villeneuve is starting with proceedings pending against
him.
<P>
During the Grand Prix of Japan, Jacques Villeneuve and his closest
competitor Michael Schumacher start from the first starting lane.
During qualifying training, Williams-driver Villeneuve had the
fastest round.  But Ferrari-star Schumacher was only some fractions
of a second slower: .062 second to be exact.  Thus, for the
eleventh time this season, Mr. Villeneuve is in the pole-position.
Third to start is the second Ferrari driver, Eddi Irvine, in front
of Mika Hakkinen at McLaren/Mercedes, Berger, Frentzen and Alesi.
Ralf Schumacher enters the race from a disappointing thirteenth
starting place.  Final training had to be interrupted for fifteen
minutes after Gianni Morbidelli had a serious accident - his car
totalled; the driver shocked but not injured.


<DOC de-news-1997-10-11-8>
<H1>
National soccer league team qualified for world championship '98
</H1>

The German national soccer league qualified Saturday evening in
Hannover for the final round of the soccer world championship
next year in France.  The Germans beat the team from Albania 4:3.
Germany won its qualification group before Georgia and Portugal.


