<DOC de-news-1999-06-07-1>
<H1>
Consultations about Kosovo-crisis
</H1>
The consultations of the Foreign Ministers of the G-8-group
concerning a UN resolution to bring the Kosovo-conflict to an end continued
until the evening without success. According to diplomats, the group could not
come to terms on a final text. During the talks on the Petersberg in Bonn, a
speaker of the US Foreign Ministry was talking of a substantial progress, but
also of extremely different points of view. At the same time as the G-8-talks
took place, EU-mediator Ahtisaari, Chancellor Schroeder and the French State
Premier, Jospin, met in Berlin to talk about the progress of the peace process.
Ahtisaari said, the UN Security Council had to decide the planned Kosovo
resolution as fast as possible in order to prevent a security vacuum.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-07-2>
<H1>
Problems with a more German troops in the Kosovo
</H1>
The Greens do not agree with the decision of the Federal Government to
raise the contingent of the Bundeswehr for the planned international peace
troops by 2,500 soldiers. After a party board meeting, speaker Radtke called a
resolution of the UN Security Council the only condition to grant permission.
But the cabinet's decision did not consider that. According to the defense
policy speaker of the Greens, Beer, such a rash decision of the Bundestag to
send off more German soldiers into this region makes no sense. In the morning,
the cabinet had decided to raise the Bundeswehr part of the Kosovo peace troop
up to 8,500 soldiers. The Bundestag will debate about this topic on Tuesday.
Federal Defense Minster Scharping said, only pioneer, logistic and
telecommunication units are needed to provisionally rebuild the destroyed
infrastructure. Sanitary men should take care of the medical supply for the
people in the Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-07-3>
<H1>
SPD and CDU want to continue the grand coalition in Bremen
</H1>
After the good results of the elections yesterday in Bremen, SPD and CDU
want to decide fast about the continuation of the grand coalition. Bremen's
mayor, Henning Scherf, has the full support of the SPD. But party chairman and
Chancellor Schroeder said, this would not be a model for Bonn or other states.
The SPD emphasized its leading role, while the CDU emphasized the equal rights
for both parties in the coalition talks. A problem could be the Bundesrat
clause. There seem to be different opinions about that matter in both parties.
It seems, if Scherf wants to support the most important goals of the Federal
Government. After a meeting of the SPD presidency, Scherf pointed out, that on
the one hand Bremen could not collect billions from the State, while on the
other hand it would take away the basis of the tax reform. He wants to have
finished the coalition talks with the CDU until Thursday.
According to the preliminary official final result, the SPD reached 42.6 percent
of all votes, the CDU ended up with 37.1 percent. Compared with the last
elections, both ruling parties registered noticeable gains of votes. The Greens
lost 4.1 percent and got only nine percent.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-07-4>
<H1>
Dioxin-scandal: Border controls arranged
</H1>
As a result of the scandal of dioxin-poisoned animal food from
Belgium, the Federal Ministry for Agriculture arranged spot checks of transport
vehicles at the German-Belgian border. This should prevent the import of living
chicken, pigs and cows from Belgium. Federal Health Minister Fischer and Federal
Minister for Agriculture Funke once again criticized the information policy of
the Belgian state. In the meantime, the Belgian Government prohibited the sale
of butter. Poultry, meat products and eggs from Belgium had been taken from the
market before that.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-07-5>
<H1>
Family with five members probably killed in the Tauern-Tunnel disaster
</H1>
It is very likely that the five members of a family from
Reutlingen are some of the twelve victims of the accident in the Austrian
Tauern-Tunnel. Number plate and chassis number of the car had now been
identified and were classified as the family's ones. By means of a DNA-analysis,
the corpses should be definitely identified.

