<DOC de-news-1998-12-05-1>
<H1>
Change proposed in the capital gains tax at the EU level
</H1>
The federal government is proposing a new model for taxing capital gains
which is also intended to help align tax laws across EU member countries.
The capital gains of smaller companies are to be exempt under the proposed
regulations.  According to a Federal Finance Ministry spokeman, Bonn will
try to push through the proposal at EU level during the German presidency
of the EU council, due to begin on Jan 1, 1999.

<P>
Since January 1993, investors have been required to pay a flat tax of 30
per cent on all interest and dividend income in excess of DM 6100 per year
(DM 12200 for married couples).  The new red-green federal government
intends to cut these exemptions by half in 2000.  In the meantime,
however, more ideas about the capital gains tax have sprung up.  According
to the latest issue of "Der Spiegel," Finance Minister Lafontaine wants to
abolish the interest and dividend tax and replace it with a different
model of taxation.  By his proposal, the banks would collect a certain
percentage of their clients' interest and dividend income and transfer
that amount anonymously to the fiscal authorities.  This would tax
interest and dividend income at a flat rate which would no longer be
reported in an individual's tax return.  Details of the procedure and
implementation of such a tax are to be worked out by a commission early
next year according to "Der Spiegel."  The Finance Ministry, however,
declined to confirm that report.  According to a press spokesman, it is
mostly the responsibility of the European Union to find a uniform solution
for harmonizing interest and dividend taxes across member countries. In
this respect, the commission has already supplied ideas which will have to
be thoroughly examined under the German presidency.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-05-2>
<H1>
Employers demand changes in social and tax policies
</H1>
Next Monday, the talks for the "Alliance for Jobs" will officially
commence. Representatives of employers, unions and the federal government
will convene to consult on joint measures against unemployment.  The
participants seem to be carefully optimistic at the outset of the
meetings.

<P>
There are big hopes attached to the negotiations for the Alliance for
Jobs. IG Metall [Germany's largest union] is hopeful that a new course in
employment policy can be set.  IG Metall chairman Zwickel expects that
objectives and time frames can be agreed on right at the beginning.  The
bumpy start of the new federal government should not be a precedent for
the beginning of the employment talks, Mr. Zwickel added.  The head of the
German Federation of Unions (DBG), Mr. Schulte, has urged the
representatives of the employers to take a fair and objective view. Mr.
Schulte also said, "If the Alliance for Jobs doesn't work now, then this
idea is dead."  A likely bone of contention during the talks is the
unions' demand for full pension benefits at 60.  In the business camp,
this proposal has met with resistance.  According to Mr. Hundt, head of
the employers' association, such ideas are impossible to fund and have
little or no effect on the labor market.  Mr. Hundt called for a radical
tax and social policy reform in order to lessen the financial burden on
enterprises and employees alike.  Mr. Goener, chairman of the federal
association of employer organizations, shares a similar view.  He believes
the anticipated income tax reform will heap a new tax burden of 30 billion
marks on businesses.  That should come off the table, he said.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-05-3>
<H1>
Expert study on Kruemmel nuclear power plant
</H1>
The surroundings of the Kruemmel nuclear power plant are not unusually
contaminated with radiation.  This is the conclusion of a still
unpublished study by the leukemia commission of Schleswig-Holstein and
Lower Saxony.  The news magazine "Focus" reported the results of the study
in its latest issue.

<P>
An unusually high incidence of leukemia has occurred in the vicinity of
the Kruemmel nuclear power plant.  The question of why has been the
subject of years of investigation without any satisfactory conclusion
having been reached. The Kruemmel nuclear reactor has been suspected time
and again of being the culprit.  This is why experts have now examined
tree slices from the surroundings of the plant for radioactive residues of
Tritium and Carbon-14, according to the "Focus" report.  For reference,
they also looked at tree slices from Celle and Wuergassen.  The result: No
significant differences.  For this reason, according to the study, the
Kruemmel power plant can be ruled out as cause of the leukemia cases.
Dietrich Harder, member of the experts panel, recommends that the
radiation theory be dropped and the search for biological or medical
causes be stepped up.  The Schleswig-Holstein Ministry of Energy has
confirmed that the results of the study were already discussed nearly two
weeks ago at a meeting of the commission.  The minutes of that meeting
have not been filed yet, so an official statement has not yet been made,
according to "Focus."

