<DOC de-news-1998-12-23-1>
<H1>
Extortion of German Rail ended
</H1>
The primary suspect in the latest case of extortion against the German
Rail company (Deutsche Bahn) has admitted to participating in three
attacks on the rail system. The Federal Criminal Office in Wiesbaden also
announced that, even after he was taken into custody, the man threatened
that bombs would go off at several train stations if he were arrested;
however, searches at the relevant stations failed to find any explosives.
The man was overpowered by police at the hand-over of ransom money at a
rest stop on the Munich-Salzburg autobahn. This morning police also
captured a suspected accomplice at his home in Chemnitz. Both men are
accused of trying to extort 10 million DM from German Rail. Federal
Transportation Minister Franz Muentefering expressed the hope that the two
arrests would discourage further copy-cat crimes. The boss of German Rail,
Johannes Ludewig, lamented the high number of imitators; on Monday alone
there were eight interruptions to rail service as a result of threats of
sabotage.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-23-2>
<H1>
Attack on Galinsky's grave supposedly not a right-wing act
</H1>
Four days following the attack on the grave of the former chairman of the
Central Council of German Jews, Heinz Galinsky, a letter of confession has
appeared. It was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to a
newspaper. According to the letter, as a justice spokesman in Berlin
announced, the small explosion at the gravesite was not motivated by
right-wing extremism; rather, the headstone was destroyed in protest
against changing the name of Berlin's Schulstrasse (School Street) to
Heinz-Galinsky-Strasse. Security authorities are currently examining the
letter for authenticity.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-23-3>
<H1>
Coalition demonstrates unity in nuclear policies
</H1>
Representatives of the coalition parties have confirmed their desire for
consensus in the dispute about nuclear policies. Minister for the
Chancellor's Office, Bodo Hombach (SPD), told Deutschlandfunk radio that
Germany's withdrawal from nuclear energy was a common project of both SPD
and Greens. He said he did not think that the coalition would dissolve
over this issue. Federal Environment Minister Juergen Trittin (Greens)
expressed similar sentiments. In Bonn, the executive chairman of the
Greens, Gunda Roestel, said that such differences of opinion were a normal
democratic process. She emphasized that the replacement of the two federal
nuclear commissions was long overdue – and was furthermore entirely within
the purview of Environment Minister Trittin.
The nuclear power industry has called on Federal Chancellor Schroeder to
stand firm vis-a-vis Trittin, to use his power in establishing guidelines
to prevent the environment minister from striking off in his own
direction. That appeal resulted from a meeting of nuclear power plant
operators in Munich. They also said that Trittin's actions, coming before
top-level meetings planned for January, called into question his ability
to work toward a consensus.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-23-4>
<H1>
Inflation in Germany 0.9% in 1998
</H1>
The rate of inflation in Germany over the course of the year just ending
has clearly dropped, according to preliminary calculations by the Federal
Statistics Office. The office in Wiesbaden said it looks like the average
for 1998 will come in at 0.9 percent. This is the lowest rate since German
Reunification.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-23-5>
<H1>
Scharping concerned about situation in Kosovo
</H1>
Defence Minister Rudolf Scharping is increasingly concerned about the
situation in the Serbian province of Kosovo. Paying a visit to the German
soldiers in Bosnia, Scharping said that Yugoslavian President Milosevic
was exploiting every opportunity to thwart the agreement on pulling out
his troops.
Scharping had to scrap plans to visit the German Army contingent of the
Kosovo Protection Force in Macedonia because his plane could not land in
the Macedonian capital of Skopje due to icy conditions at the airport.
Meanwhile, new reports of violence have come out of Kosovo; according to
Serbian reports, one person was killed and three were injured in the
violence.

