<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-1>
<H1>
Trittin plans taxation of nuclear fuel rods
</H1>
Federal Minister of the Environment Trittin intends to raise the cost of
energy from nuclear power plants in April by instigating an additional tax on
nuclear fuel rods. The Ministry figures that the tax would increase the price
of atomic energy by one Pfennig per kilowatt-hour. This comes to revenue of
approximately 1.5 billion million Marks in this year alone. Trittin's
suggestion now needs to be approved by the various departments. However, the
Ministry of Economics states that Trittin's suggestion is still being
debated. According to a newspaper report, the electric utility companies also
appear to be ready to reach a compromise in the discussion over the new
composition of the Commission for Reactor Safety and Radiation Protection.
The head of VIAG, Mr. Simson, suggested that both committees be composed by
one-third each of representatives from the anti and pro nuclear power camps,
and one-third independent experts. However, Trittin turned this suggestion
down by saying that he does not want the atomic energy industry to be able to
commission their own experts. For this reason, the spokesperson for the Green
Party, Gunda Roestel, does not rule out a new controversies.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-2>
<H1>
Lafontaine intends to eliminate "shadow budgets"
</H1>
Federal Finance Minister Lafontaine intends to eliminate the "shadow budgets"
of the old federal government. A spokesperson for the Federal Ministry of
Finance confirmed this in a report in the newsmagazine "Der Spiegel." Six
special accounts, which conceal billion Mark debts, were included in the 1999
budget. One of these special accounts is the inheritance debt redemption
fund, which contains debts of approximately 300 billion Marks. "Der Spiegel"
figures that the total debts in these so-called separate properties amount to
almost 500 billion Marks.  Lafontaine now wants to include these accounts in
the normal federal budget in order to show the German citizens the full
extent of the German federal debt.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-3>
<H1>
Discussion over German payments to the EU
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Schroeder has once again called for the German
contribution to the European Union's budget to be lowered. According to
Schroeder, it is important that the German net payments go down instead of up
between the years 2000 and 2006. The Secretary of State in the Foreign Office
Verheugen emphasized that the EU Commission and all Partner States had
recognized the current unfairness involved in the division of the financial
burden. The head of the CDU Schaeuble warns that the government should not
expect too much, but also agrees that the German contributions to the EU must
be lowered.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-4>
<H1>
Conversion to the Euro proceeding smoothly
</H1>
The European financial centers are pleased. The banks and exchanges all say
that adjustments to computer and payment systems were running according to
schedule. Even the responsible parties at the European Central Bank in
Frankfurt, which is in charge of the monetary conversion, are pleased. Many
banks intend to conclude their work today. As of yesterday, the monetary
policy is effective for 290 million Europeans. For example, bank customers
can now process transfers in the Euro and the stock trades will be
exclusively conducted in Euro.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-5>
<H1>
Restraint regarding the Euro
</H1>
On the first sales day after the introduction of the single European
currency, the Euro hardly played a role in German businesses. According to
the General Association of the German Retail Trade, there were very few
customers who wanted to pay for their purchase with a check made out using
the Euro, for example. As of January 1, 1999, customers can use the Euro for
cashless money transactions.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-6>
<H1>
CDU/CSU plans to organize a petition against dual citizenship
</H1>
The CDU/CSU ("the Union") is mobilizing against the Red/Green federal
government's immigration policy. The CDU and CSU want to begin circulating a
nationwide petition against the planned reform of immgration and
naturalization law. Wolfgang Schaeuble, CDU chairperson, said that the
initiative has been agreed upon with the head of the CSU, Mr. Stoiber.  The
Union parties are rejecting the idea of dual citizenship and are demanding
additional limitations on new arrivals. The top goal in the immigration
policy needs to be integration. Stoiber explained in an interview that dual
citizenship would endanger the internal security of Germany more than the
terrorist acts of the RAF ("Red Army Faction") during the 1970s and
80s. According to Stoiber, he figures that 4.2 million immigrants would have
the right of naturalization according to the plans of the Red/Green
government. Stoiber feels this would overstress Germany's integration
capacity.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-7>
<H1>
Herzog suggestion for the Holocaust memorial
</H1>
Federal President Roman Herzog supports a dense network of smaller memorials
throughout Germany. Herzog said in an interview that Germany could build a
central memorial if it wants to, but he feels that a large number of smaller
memorials and commemorative plaques are more important. According to the
Federal President, it is important that the youth also be reminded of the
crimes of National Socialism. Even though the younger generation is not
guilty of the crimes of the past, said Herzog, they still need to be told
that they also need to hold responsibility for the crimes in the future.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-02-8>
<H1>
Feud over tuition fees
</H1>
The chairman of the Ministry of Culture Conference, Mr. Maier, is confident
that the feud over tuition fees in Germany will soon be settled. Maier stated
in the news magazine "Focus" that the federal government and the federal
states may agree that the general course of studies remain free of fees for
the average time it takes for a student to complete their studies. The
student will have to pay for their education once they begin a second course
of studies or exceed the average time limit.

