<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-1>
<H1>
Election in Bremen
</H1>
According to forecasts made by the state TV stations ARD and ZDF, the
Social Democratic Party (SPD) have won the federal elections in the state
of Bremen. According to these forecasts, the SPD have gained 9.1 percent
and have received 43.1 percent of the vote in all. According to Infratest
forecasts, the CDU will increase their share of the vote by 5.1 percent
to receive 37.7 percent.  The Green party have lost 3.8 percent achieving
only a level of 9.3 percent. The right-wing DVU (German People's Union),
which managed to get representation in the parliamentary elections in
Bremerhafen, have only got 2.6 percent of the votes in the state, but
will still be allocated a seat in state parliament. The FDP, according to
the forecasts, will not be represented in parliament due to only
receiving 2 percent of the vote. The PDS also didn't manage to achieve
the 5 percent level necessary for parliamentary representation.

<P>
This means that the SPD and CDU could either continue their grand
coalition or that the SPD could form a coalition government with the
Greens. A red-green coalition would have an absolute majority in the
state parliament. mayor of  BremenH enning Scherf's (SPD) initial
reaction to the election result was of discouragement. He said that
electors were obviously satisfied with the work of the grand coalition.
He continued that he hoped that the SPD would be able to get majority
support for continuing the coalition with the CDU. Around 500 000 voters
took part in the election this Sunday. Participation was week by the late
afternoon and was much lower than the former election. Around 45 percent
of eligible voters took part in the election by four p.m. This was eight
percent lower than the last state elections.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-2>
<H1>
Kosovo talks continue
</H1>
NATO has apparently had first signs indicating a withdrawal of Serb
forces from the Kosovo. Jamie Shea, NATO spokesman in Brussels, said that
a military convoy had departed from the South of Kosovo heading north.
However, it was still not certain that this was the required withdrawal
of troops. The air attacks are continuing until it can be proven that the
withdrawal is definitely underway, said Mr. Shea. The Alliance continued
their bombing raids yesterday afternoon and evening although they flew
fewer raids. At the same time, NATO is stepping up its preparations for
enlisting the KFOR peace troops in Kosovo. The units in Macedonia and
Albania will be increased to
50 000 men in the next few days.

<P>
The talks between NATO generals and the Yugoslav military in Macedonia
are continuing. A NATO spokesman said that the reason that the talks are
taking so long is not because  of basic differences, but rather because
of the extraordinary complexity of the situation. According to the
official Yugoslavian news agency the Yugoslavs plan to sign the agreement
regarding the withdrawal of troops today. The NATO plan sets out the
details for the withdrawal of the Serbian military and Police Force in
the Kosovo. Serbia has seven days to do this. Correspondents have
reported that the Serbs want to have a fortnight to withdraw their
troops. NATO General Secretary Solana said in Brussels that the talks are
progressing well.

<P>
Diplomatic efforts for a UN resolution on the Kosovo peace plan are also
continuing. EU negotiator Ahtisaari flew to Peking on Sunday evening to
persuade China to agree to a united stand in the UN Security Council. G-8
foreign ministers are also meeting tomorrow in Bonn to discuss the Kosovo
situation. The meeting was originally scheduled for today (Sunday).

<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-3>
<H1>
Federal Minister of Finance achieves planned cutbacks
</H1>
Hans Eichel, Federal Minister of Finance, has reported that his goal of
cut backs amounting to 30 billion marks has practically been achieved.
According to reports by the news magazines "Spiegel" and "Focus",
cutbacks had only amounted to 28 billion till now. However, new cutbacks
to pensions and unemployment benefits are planned. However, it is also
reported that sales tax might have to be increased to finance rebuilding
in the Balkans.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-4>
<H1>
Building industry institutes new bad-weather regulation
</H1>
In the current wage negotiations, representatives of the building
industry and the government have agreed to a new regulation regarding
wage remuneration in bad weather. The new regulation is a combination of
the old regulation where workers accumulated overtime in the summer for
which they got paid in the winter. In the future, workers will only be
able to accumulate 30 instead of 50 hours of overtime. Employers will
only pay the so-called "loss of earnings" money from the 31st hour. The
Labour Office will be responsible for compensating for wage losses after
100 hours. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and a spokesman for the
negotiators said in Hannover that this new regulation will result in
avoiding the annual loss of around 50,000 jobs in the industry.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-5>
<H1>
High water levels at Lake Constance
</H1>
By yesterday afternoon, water levels did not reach a new record high as
originally feared in the Lake Constance area. The authorities, however,
say that the danger is not over. Water levels sank to 5,6 metres which is
5 cm less than the record highs over the Whitsun weekend in May. However,
more rain is predicted for today which could result in water levels
increasing to 5,65 metres. Around 250 ships are stuck in the Upper Rhine
in the area between Basel and Iffezheim bei Rastatt in Baden due to the
high water levels.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-06-6>
<H1>
Renewed outbreak of swine fever in Lower Saxony
</H1>
A new outbreak of swine fever has been reported in Lower Saxony. Six
hundred pigs had to be slaughtered in the Oldenberg area due to
confirmation of swine fever. The decision on whether more pigs will have
to be slaughtered in the next few days will depend on the results of new
inspections. More than 17 thousand pigs had to be slaughtered in Lower
Saxony eight months ago due to an epidemic.

