<DOC de-news-1999-05-27-1>
<H1>
Clinton Welcomes Indictment of Milosevic
</H1>
The Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, is the first sitting head of
state to be indicted for war crimes. Four other leading Yugoslav politicians
are to answer for their actions together with Milosevic before the UN
tribunal in The Hague. US President Bill Clinton welcomed the indictment.
Other reactions were not as supportive of the indictment, saying that it
would make the diplomatic efforts to end the Kosovo crisis more difficult.
Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said, "If, to state it directly, the
government in Belgrade calls tomorrow and wants to accept and carry out the
five conditions, we will have to talk to them. In the interest of peace, in
the interest of the people, in the interest of the refugees returning. That
would not be negotiation, that would be then be our duty. But law and justice
will run their course, that you can assume."

<DOC de-news-1999-05-27-2>
<H1>
EU Countries Still Against Quota for Accepting Refugees
</H1>
A Dutch initiative to introduce a quota for accepting refugees from Kosovo
failed to pass in the European Union's Council of Ministers of Justice and of
the Interior. Instead, a resolution was passed according to which the
refugees should be housed as close as possible to their homeland. At the same
time, another appeal was made to all EU member states to grant shelter to
people who were driven out of Kosovo. According to the UN Commission on
Refugees, approximately 63,000 Kosovo-Albanians have been flown to western
countries since the beginning of the war in Kosovo.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-27-3>
<H1>
Situation in Bavarian Flood Areas Slowly Improving
</H1>
Although the situation has slowly improved in areas of Bavaria affected by
flooding, an emergency alert is still in effect in Passau as well as in the
districts of Kehlheim and Freising. According to predictions of the Water
Management Office, flood waters in most areas should recede by this weekend.
Neustadt an der Donau and the Amper region are the only two areas where
flooding is still expected continue, but even there the water has receded
enough for a few houses to be accessible again. Fire fighters have begun with
clean-up work.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-27-4>
<H1>
First Airport with ICE Connection Opens
</H1>
Federal Transportation Minister Franz Muentefering and the head of the German
railways Deutsche Bahn, Johannes Ludewig, officially opened the new terminal
at the Frankfurt Airport. Starting Sunday, up to 84 ICE (InterCity Express
with speeds up to 280 km/h) and IC (InterCity with speeds up to 200 km/h)
trains will make stops at the new train station made of glass and steel.
Passengers can then switch from plane to train without having to detour to
Frankfurt's main train station. Some construction will continue on the 440
million DM project until the beginning of next year making it necessary for
travelers to put up temporarily with some make-shift arrangements.

