<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-1>
<H1>
Memorial Service in Munich
</H1>
A solemn Memorial Service for Bavarian victims of the
Eschede train wreck took place in Munich this morning.
The accident killed 100 people two weeks ago. 55 of these
came from Bavaria. A candle was lighted for every one of
these victims in St. Michael's Church. The presiding bishop
of Bavaria's Lutheran Church warned against putting too much
faith in technology. Cardinal Wetter, Roman Catholic
archbishop of Munich and Freising as well as Bavarian state
premier Stoiber also made brief speeches. The offical
obsequy will be held in Lower Saxonian Celle next Sunday.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-2>
<H1>
Bundestag debates on outcome of EU summit
</H1>
The Bundestag held one of the last major debates before the
general elections on the theme of European policy. The
marathon session turned mainly around the outcome of the
Cardiff summit meeting of EU countries and the fray
about German monetary contributions to the European Union.
In the initial speech, chancellor Kohl repeated his call
for a fair balanced distribution of burdens. SPD leader
Scharping accused the governing coalition of making
economies at the wrong end. The chancellor initially took
the opportunity for painting an optimistic picture of the
state of German economy. Germany has worked her way back
into a leading position within the EU, he said, and the
unemployment rate of a yearly average of 10.9% compares
favorably with that shown by important European partners.
Opposition leader Rudolf Scharping countered that the
chancellor had brought on the presenr financial problems
by agreeing, in his enthusiastic mood, to the 1992 budget
proposal. He implied that the Union parties oppose the
reform of European agrarian policies contained in
Agenda 2000 with an eye on their rural constituencies.
Joschka Fischer, leader of B90/The Greens, chimed in with
criticism of the chancellor's governmental declaration.
Like Scharping before him, he accused Kohl of putting
electoral convenience before European concerns.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-3>
<H1>
FDP may keep subsidy fund until further notice
</H1>
The liberal FDP party will not have to restitute the
possibly unlawfully obtained DM 10.5 million obtained
from the federal party subsidization fund. The Federal
Constitutional Court refused to issue an urgent decision
in the matter today. The court found that the matter had to
be decided "in fine" by the Muenster High Administrative
Court before it could take it up. An injunction against this
latter court' urgent decision of February pleaded by the
Greys/Grey Panthers Federal League was rejected today. A
three-person chamber of the Constituional Court agreed with
the Muenster decision, which had left FDP with the
controversial funds, for the time being, with the reasoning
that in a juridically questionable situation the principle
of equal chances for parties in the electoral campaign
must be respected. Taking these millions out of FDP's
campaign chest immediately would irrevocably jeopardize the
party's chances on Election Day without perceptively
augmenting the chances of the Greys' dwarf party. The
constitutional judges concurred, expressly reserving
judgment on the gist of the matter, which must first be
decided on by the administrative courts in the main
proceedings.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-4>
<H1>
Governmental statement by state premier Hoeppner
</H1>
State premier Hoeppner of Saxony-Anhalt staked out his PDS
tolerated government's basic policies for the coming 4
years. In an offical governmental declaration before the
state parliament, Hoeppner gave first priority to the
unemployment problem and furthering the middle classes.
He pronounced in favor of a new labor pact aimed at assuring
jobs in Saxony-Anhalt state. Active furthering of the middle
classes in the state would include a state investment and
development bank. Economically oriented community
settlements and an increased wave of start-off small
enterprise subsidies aim at increased economic recuperation.
The second theme of the governmental declaration was clearly
drawn up in the wake of right extremist DVU's electoral
success: outlokk for the young. Because young voters were
mainly responsible for the right extremist electoral
success. Schools must increase their efforts in political
education; day-to-day life in schools should provide basic
schooling in democracy. At the same time, Hoeppner promised
apprenticeship positions in the state this year for every
youth looking for one . On the other hand, he warned that a
short term solution for the difficult unemployment situation
in Saxony-Anhalt was not in view. The state government plans
to assist all attempts towards eliminating discrimination
against the socially underprivileged. Another highlight
of the government's policy would be increased protection for
minorities. A state constitutional amendment banning
discrimination is planned for.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-5>
<H1>
Vote on controversial higher education guidelines law
</H1>
After several hours of discussion on European policy, there
where other matters on the Bundestag's agenda this
afternoon, the controversial higher education guidelines
law.
The coalition forced a vote on the amended law, obtaining an
absolute majority, in spite of the Bundesrat's and
opposition parties' protests. Today's Bundestag vote is not
the last word in the matter, however. SPD threatens a with a
constitutional court complaint should president Herzog sign
the law. Disagreeing with the government's opinion, SPD
holds that the higher education guidelines law must be
submitted for the Bundesrat's consent. SPD states have
refused to agree because the law does not expressly prohibit
tuition charges. All other points had been brought to a
consensus solution between government and opposition. Among
them are increased efficiency controls for students and
teachers alike. Government subsidies for higher education
establishments is to be graded by their teaching and
research efficiency. The law will also provide for
the possibility of obtaining international recognition for
German university degrees.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-18-6>
<H1>
Nuclear waste quarrel continues
</H1>
The quarrel around contaminated nuclear waste containers
was again discussed in Bavaria's state parliament today.
In a plenary session, ministe for ecology Goppel revealed
the status quo of the investigations. According to the
statement, over one third of the containers shipped since
the 80's were contaminated. Starting in 1981, nuclear
industries have been keeping records of contamination
findings, including those in Bavaria. Of 267 Bavarian
containers, 104 were affected. One of them showed 555
Becquerel in an empty state, another one, fully loaded came
up with 3,000 Becquerek per square cm. In spite of the fact
that the industry has been keeping the Bavarian government,
its long-time defender, in the dark, Goppel did not see
reason to doubt the reliability of nuclear industries,
including the Bayernwerke. There has been no instance of
health hazards.
All nuclear waste transports in and across bavaria will stay
banned until the industries come up with containers proven
to be free of radiation.

