<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-1>
<H1>
Debate over withdrawal from nuclear energy and the economy
</H1>
A controversy has developed in the lower house of parliament over the plans
of the
federal government to withdraw from use of nuclear power and reprocessing of
nuclear waste.  In one of the Union faction's Aktuellen Stunde Environment
Minister
Tritten defended the plans of the Red-Green coalition.  The end of
reprocessing
presents no strain on the relationships to Great Britain and France.
Tritten stressed
that no compensation payments have to be made to the French company in La
Hague
or the British one in Sellafield.  Similarly, Minister of Economics Mueller
stated that
the three-way storage arrangement is a relic from the olden times.  The CDU
representative Grill accused the federal government of destroying 100,000
jobs
through its policies.  The FPD politician Rexrodt stated the ban on
reprocessing will
lead to substantial demands for compensation.  Tritten's plans will cause
damage to
the European plants.  In the afternoon the administration and the opposition
debated
the expert council's yearly report over economic development.  Finance
Minister
Lafontaine defended his consumer goods market directed policies.  The
Union's
Deputy Director Maerz criticized that Lafontaine's approach will lead to
inflation and
further unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-2>
<H1>
Thierse: No cooperation with DDR Spy Rupp
</H1>
President of the Lower House Thierse will not tolerate the work of the
former DDR
spy Rupp as a PDS coworker in parliament.  If need be, he will throw him out
Thierse
announced, before the Counsel of Elders in Bonn.  As the Saarland Minister
of Justice
explained, for the time being Rupp is not permitted to work for the PDS
faction.  The
head of the prison in Saarlouis has not approved the fee contract in its
present form.
The ex-agent, who was sentenced to 12 years confinement, must still fulfill
certain
requirements to secure his release.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-3>
<H1>
Union campaign: already 100,000 signatures collected
</H1>
According to statements of Chairman Schaeuble, the Union has collected more
than
100,000 signatures against double citizenship.  In an article published
today in the
Esslinger newspaper, Schaeuble again reproached the Red-Green coalition for
hindering the integration of foreigners with its plans.  Minister of the
Interior Schily
wants to require a declaration of loyalty from foreigners seeking
naturalization.
Schily said that this would require the applicants to acknowledge free
democratic
principles.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-4>
<H1>
NPD-Federal party conference to take place as planned
</H1>
In spite of an arson fire, the NPD federal party conference will take place
this
weekend as planned in the Saxony town of Mulda.  The municipal council has
resolved to make the performance hall usable by the weekend.  According to
findings
of the police, during the night unknown persons broke into the hall and with
the help
of an accelerator set a fire.  Just yesterday the party had won a decision
before the
Administrative Court in Chemnitz against a notice of termination of the
rental
agreement for the hall.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-5>
<H1>
EUGH: "Neue Maxhuette" wrongfully received moneys
</H1>
The steel frim, Neue Maxhuette, which is involved in bankruptcy proceedings,
has,
according to decision of the European Court, unlawfully received assistance
from the
state of Bavaria.  The funds were granted between 1991 and 1995 and amounted
to
approximately 255 million marks.  The court decided today in Luxembourg that
the
funds were not compatible with the common steel market.  Through its opinion
the
court dismissed the firm's charges against the decisions of the EU
Commission.  The
Bavarian Economic Minister Wiesheu described the decision of the judges as
unfortunate.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-6>
<H1>
Trade unions HBV/DAG announce protests
</H1>
In the wage dispute of the insurance industry, the national union of
employees (DAG)
and the union of the trade, bank and insurance industry (HBV) announced
their
intentions to carry out protest actions.  After a joint meeting of the large
working
party on wages in Hamburg, the unions explained that before the next
negotiations at
least the management centers would be struck.  Yesterday the second
collective
bargaining round for the approximately 20,000 employees of the trades was
adjourned until February 22.  DAG and HBV are demanding 6.5% more in wages
and
salary as well as a reduction in weekly work hours.

<DOC de-news-1999-01-21-7>
<H1>
Belgians investigating infusion accident
</H1>
Belgian investigators intend to travel to Berlin tomorrow to clarify deaths
of two
infants from the possible miss labeling of an infusion solution.  By order
of the public
prosecutor the production process of the Berlin branch of the firm Braun is
to be
examined.  According to the findings to date the premature infants died
because they
received an infusion of calcium chloride instead of glucose.  Last weekend
the
Belgian judiciary opened an investigation against the firm.

