<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-1>
<H1>
Truck driver protests
</H1>
Today, truck drivers all over the world protested against their work
conditions. In Europe, unionized truck drivers rallied at border crossings
against long working hours that cause accidents due to overtiredness. The
protests partially blocked cross-border traffic, especially at the French
borders. At the Europe Bridge connecting Kehl, Germany and Strasbourg,
France one lane was temporarily blocked. In Germany, there were protests in
25 places according to the OeTV union. About 100 truck drivers participated
in blocking the Austrian-Italian border at the Brenner pass. The truck
drivers demand a limit of 48 working hours per week, a lower retirement age
and better conditions in international traffic.
The EU commission expressed its understanding for the protest. The
authority called on trade unions and transportation companies to negotiate
a working time regulation by the end of September. If the negotiations
failed, the commission would submit a proposal.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-2>
<H1>
Job market numbers for August support any party's view
</H1>
The last official release of unemployment statistics before the general
elections has further incited the election campaign. Chancellor Helmut Kohl
stated that the figures showed a trend change on the job market. He expects
that less than four million people will be unemployed in September. This
was a sign that the reform policy of the government coalition was working.
Also CSU and FDP called the changes on the job market encouraging. In
contrast, SPD president Oskar Lafontaine said, there was never before such
a high number of unemployed at the time of a general election as this year.
The SPD would turn the elections into a plebiscite on the fighting of
unemployment. Lafontaine said "The number of more than four million shows
that the Kohl government must be voted out". Juergen Trittin and Gunda
Roestel, executive spokespersons of Buendnis 90/Die Gruenen called the
success news of the government "voter deception".
The president of the Federal Employment Office, Bernhard Jagoda sees the
slight improvement of the unemployment number as a sign for a country-wide
change of trend at the job market. The Federal Employment Office reported
today that the number of unemployed decreased by 39,000 to 4.095 million in
August. The percentage declined from 10.7 to 10.6 percent. Jagoda stressed
that he thought it is possible that the unemployment number could fall
below the four million mark within the next two months if the job creation
and education programmes could be upheld at the current level. As before,
the situation in the East with 17.1 percent unemployed is worse than in the
West with 9 percent. In Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria the unemployment
increased slightly since July contrary to the federal trend.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-3>
<H1>
Still 152,000 youths without apprenticeship
</H1>
At the start of the new school term there are still almost 152,000 young
people without an apprentice job. The president of the Federal Employment
Office, Bernhard Jagoda said that although the number of available
apprenticeships was the about the same as last year the number of
applicants had increased. About 59,000 apprenticeships were still available
at the end of August.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-4>
<H1>
Congress of historians opened in Frankfurt
</H1>
With the motto "Intentions - Reality" the 42nd German Historians'
Day ("Deutscher Historikertag" - a congress of historians) was opended today
in Frankfurt. In his opening speech, the head of the German Society of
Historians, Mr Fried, demanded the study of the inglorious role of many
historians during the Nazi area. President of the Federal Constitutional
Court Jutta Limbach praised the role of Germany's supreme court in society
and politics.  At the conference that will continue until Friday, some
2,000 scientists, history teachers and archivists take part.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-5>
<H1>
Communities have to stick to the rules for public contracts
</H1>
Companies that take part in invitations to bid for public
contracts will have more confidence in a fair proceeding after today's
ruling of the Federal High Court. According to its decision, the price
is the only legal base for awarding a contract among all bidders judged
suitable. The city of Osnabrueck had not chosen the cheapest offer
for building a sewage purification plant because they had judged
another bidder more suitable for the contract. The city will now have
to pay compensation to the bidder with the cheapest offer for lost
revenues.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-6>
<H1>
Four-year prison sentence for fraud during German monetary union
</H1>
In one of the biggest cases of fraud connected to the German
monetary union in 1990, a businessman from the state of Thuringia was
sentenced to four years in prison. The Berlin Regional Court judged
the 42-year old to be guilty to have cheated the State with fake
east-west trades for the sum of DM 40 million. That is the so far
highest sentence for fraud with so-called transfer-rouble deals.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-7>
<H1>
Large Ecstasy seizure
</H1>
During a routine check at the freeway stop Wuerzburg freeway police seized
13,600 Ecstasy pills. The 26-year-old driver from the Netherlands had
hidden the drugs in the car's trunk. Arrest warrants were issued against
him and his girl-friend.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-8>
<H1>
Deportation stop for Kosovo-Albanians after airline banning
</H1>
In the State of Baden-Wuerttemberg, Kosovo-Albanians waiting
for deportation [back to Yugoslavia] will be released from prison. The
Interior Ministery communicated that as long the EU-wide banning of the
Yuoslavian airline JAD will stay in effect, all Kosovo-Albanians will be
permitted to stay. As soon as he will have received the official
confirmation of the bann from Bonn, Baden-Wuerttemberg's Interior
Minister, Mr Schaeuble, will advise the immigration authorities
accordingly.

<P>
The news agency AP reported the Federal Transport Minister, Mr Wissmann,
has officially banned all Yugoslavian planes meanwhile, implementing
a directive of the European Union.

<DOC de-news-1998-09-08-9>
<H1>
Policeman fined for causing bodily harm
</H1>
The criminal proceedings against a Heilbronn policeman
for causing bodily harm on duty were closed today against paying a fine.
According to the decision of the Stuttgart District Court, the officer
has to pay DM 3,600 and will have to render 150 hours of unpayed service
to his community. The proceedings against a second policeman will most
likely be closed on Thursday against paying a fine, too. Both officers
had extended today their statements and admitted to have beaten a man
two years ago, after arresting him. The case had been transfert from
Heilbronn to Stuttgart after a succesful appeal.

