<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-1>
<H1>
Bundestag discusses economic and social policy
</H1>
Today, on the third day of budget hearings, the economic and social policies
were on the Bundestag's agenda.  As expected, the opposing positions of
Government and Opposition on these central issues clashed sharply.  While
Minister of Economics Rexrodt views the economy as being back on a track of
stability, representatives of the Opposition accused him of failing in the
battle against unemployment.  While Minister of Employment Bluem called on
the Opposition to join efforts in the projected pension reform, this was
briskly rejected by the former.  In the debate about budget cuts, Bluem
clearly spoke out against levying a general tax on pensions.  Such taxation
would only be possible, if the premiums for pension insurance were tax-free,
the Minister explained.  Since the premiums paid by today's pensioners had
been taxed, their pension payments now should remain tax-free.  Bluem
conceded, however, that the proposals for a tax on pensions have come from
his own party's ranks, too, but this is beyond his control.  "I'm trying to
cut glades into this jungle of proposals."  When Bluem's appeal to the
Opposition to contribute in the pension reform was turned down, Ottmar
Schreiner commented that Bluem had forfeited the goodwill of the Opposition
by increasing the retirement age for women prematurely.  Before tackling the
welfare budget, the apportionment for the Ministry of Economics was fiercely
debated.  Rexrodt hinted that further cuts in coal mining subsidies are
imminent, the latter taking up more than half of his budget.  The Minister
commented on economic growth in a cautiously optimistic way, saying that
three-quarters of a percent are secured for this year, and that two to
two-and-a-half percent could be attained next year.  Nevertheless, Rexrodt
warned: "One has to repeat that this is still insufficient to widely improve
the employment situation."  Scrapped items were also characteristic of the
budget of Education Minister Ruettgers, having to put up with a reduction of
4.5%.  Central point in Ruettgers' speech was Germany's capability to persist
in the future as industrial and economic location.  "We cannot cut spending
enough, so that we would be able to compete with Malaysia or Korea or others
on a cost basis only."  Therefore, Ruettgers emphasized the significance of
high standards in research and education.  In this context, he called again
on employers to make more apprentice positions available.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-2>
<H1>
Bundesrat raises objections against austerity package
</H1>
Tomorrow, the dispute over the government's austerity package will enter the
last and decisive round.  As expected, the Bundesrat, dominated by an SPD
majority, raised objections against the measures in a special session today.
As early as tomorrow, the Bundestag can reject these objection with a 50%
majority vote.  The Coalition Government possesses a narrow majority of four
votes in the Bundestag.  This was the third time for the Bundesrat to discuss
the spending cuts, although today's debate was short, lasting for only one
hour.  SPD chairman Lafontaine again acknowledged the necessity to reduce
spending on the federal and state levels, but that the measures have to be
compatible with social justice and economic reason.  He said it is not
economically sensible to suspend the increase of child benefits and of the
tax exempt income, which had both been promised.  Nor is it economically
reasonable to set a higher retirement age for women which entails that young
people may not find jobs.  Federal Employment Minister Bluem contradicted
Lafontaine, saying that there is no mention of dismantling the welfare state.
In view of 30 days annual vacation, he considers applying days of sick leave
or rehabilitation absence toward paid vacation days acceptable.  Bavaria
supports the government's line, but strives for an exception in this specific
point, namely for pregnant women who get sick.  They should continue
receiving full pay, according to the Minister for Federal Issues, Ms. Maenle.
The Bundestag has not yet made a decision on this Bavarian law.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-3>
<H1>
Declaration of German-Czech reconciliation before the end of the year
</H1>
Leading politicians of the Coalition Government emphasized at a summit
meeting in the Chancellor's Office today that the declaration of German-Czech
reconciliation should be passed still in this year.  However, a few points
need some fine-tuning.  Foreign Minister Kinkel was charged to negotiate
these with the Czech partners once again.  Minister President Edmund Stoiber
of Bavaria disclosed details after the meeting: "We hope to achieve that
people having family ties to their former home land will be granted permanent
visas by the Czech government, without bureaucratic obstacles.  As far as the
question of expulsion is concerned, it is an important improvement that the
Czech side now also acknowledges the expulsion as an injustice and regrets
the consequences thereof for innocent people."  During the meeting with the
Coalition Government in Bonn, the CSU also pushed through that the societies
representing people expelled from formerly German territory in Eastern Europe
will be included in the proceedings, before finalization of the treaty.  In
Stoiber's opinion, it should be possible to conclude the treaty by the end of
the year, as announced by Chancellor Kohl yesterday.  He added, that there is
currently no rush.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-4>
<H1>
Talk with Kohl about apprentice positions
</H1>
Today, Chancellor Kohl met with leading industrial organizations and
representatives of the self-employed for a third round of talks regarding
apprentice positions.  The objective is to find ways to guarantee a
sufficient number of apprentice positions for juveniles in the future.
Minister of Economics Rexrodt, Minister of Education Ruettgers and Family
Minister Ms. Nolte attended the meeting at the Chancellor's Office, Bonn, as
well.  Last week, Kohl had received the Chambers of Commerce and
representatives of Trade.  According to the Federal Labor Office, 20,000
juveniles are still without apprenticeship at the beginning of the school
year.  The National Trade Union Federation (DGB), however, had named a figure
twice as high.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-5>
<H1>
Wage conflict at German Railway officially resolved
</H1>
Employers and unions had agreed to a proposal mediated over the weekend, in
Frankfurt/Main this afternoon.  Previously, German Railway had introduced the
same proposal as an offer in the negotiations.  About 180,000 workers and
employees will receive a raise of 1.3%, starting May 1, as well as a one-time
payment of DM 300.  For East Germany, an additional one-time bonus of DM 250
was agreed upon.  Moreover, wages and salaries in the New States are to rise
to 86% of the West German level in 1998.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-6>
<H1>
Brussels and Bonn sue each other
</H1>
Brussels and Bonn will sue each other, the bone of contention being the
controversial subsidies from the State of Saxony to VW.  Today, the European
Commission has filed for a lawsuit with the European High Court at Luxembourg.
The suit is directed against the Federal Republic of Germany which is
responsible for compliance with EU regulations.  The reaction of the Ministry
of Economics in Bonn was to file for a lawsuit as well, in order to sort out
the dispute about subsidies once and for all.  The State of Saxony had paid
DM 91 million to Volkswagen corporation, although this had not been approved
by the European Commission.

<DOC de-news-1996-09-12-7>
<H1>
Package explodes in Cologne Post Office
</H1>
A 49-year-old Post Office employee suffered light burns and went into shock
when a package exploded in the Post Office of Cologne.  He had opened it,
after the addressee had refused to accept it, and the sender could not be
determined.  The remains of the package are to be examined at the State
Criminal Police Agency Dusseldorf.  The police do not have clues relating to
a politically motivated background of the deed.

