<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-1>
<H1>
Bundestag debates advancements in saving plans
</H1>
The Bundestag [lower house of parliament] has discussed how to improve the
advancement of saving plans for employees. The Conservatives suggested that
employees who buy shares in their company should receive special bonuses.
The Social Democrats opposed the idea and announced that they would stop the
bill in the Budesrat [upper house of parliament].
While the opposition condemned the proposals as cheap election campaign
rhetoric, the ruling coalition praised them as the beginning of a new area
where employees were joint owners. Advancement of capital gains by employees
was more than indiscriminate spending of money, according to the Minister of
Employment, Norbert Bluem. If in the present difficult situation the state
was  spending more than one billion Marks extra just to secure more shares
for employees then that would have to be rated as an important social
advancement.
This view was shared in principle by the Social democrats' spokesman for
social affairs, Mr. Schreiner, but he criticised that the main purpose of
the proposals was to divert attention from the fact that since the end of
World War II assets have never been distributed more unevenly as they are
now. The Green Party criticised a lack of further tax allowances for share
options or company pension plans, while the Liberals wanted the benefits
being also available for non-employees.
The bill is now in the Bundesrat, where the Social Democrats will use their
majority to push through some amendments, after it passed through the
Bundestag with the majority of the Conservative-Liberal coalition. In its
present form employees in former Western Germany will receive a 20 % bonus
on share options up to a value of DM 800.- per year, while in Eastern
Germany share options up to DM 1000.- will be subsidised. To qualify for
this allowance, employees must earn DM 35,000 before taxes if they are
single or DM 70,000 if they are married.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-2>
<H1>
Ruehe: No Neonazi tendencies in the Bundeswehr
</H1>
The committee of inquiry into Neonazi activities has again summoned the
Minister of Defence, Volker Ruehe, who rejected all accusations against the
Bundeswehr. Mr. Ruehe stressed that out of 80,000 officers in the Bundeswehr
just two could be considered as far right extremists. It didn't take such a
committee to expose individual cases of neonazism and to draw the right
conclusions.
Committee members from the opposition made it clear that no general
accusations were made against the Bundeswehr, but they were missing a more
decisive political reaction after the series of far right incidents. Areas
such as leadership, political training, and handling of the historical past
needed improvement.
The committee has now finished gathering evidence and will present its final
report to the Bundestag by the end of June.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-3>
<H1>
Warning of barbecue fire fire hazards
</H1>
At the beginning of the barbecue season the fire brigade reminded the public
of the numerous fires and injuries caused by negligent use of charcoal and
fire and stressed that grills had to be set up protected from wind and out
of reach of children. They also strongly advised against the use of petrol
to light the coal.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-4>
<H1>
Saxony-Anhalt: Coalition talks between Conservatives and Social Democrats
</H1>
Saxony-Anhalt seems to be heading towards a grand coalition. State Premier
Reinhardt Hoeppner declared after an initial 90-minute meeting with the
Conservatives that negotiations with the aim of forming a grand coalition
would begin in earnest. The parliamentary party leader of the Conservatives,
Mr. Bergner, declared that his party was prepared to enter a grand coalition
and rejected rumours that the Conservatives wanted these negotiations to
fail for tactical reasons with regard to the next general elections. Apart
from a Grand Coalition Mr. Hoeppner considered a a minority government by
the Social Democrats and tolerated by his own party another viable option.
He was confident that the Conservative leadership would approve of further
negotiations with the Social Democrats.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-5>
<H1>
NPD-rally stopped again
</H1>
The town Leipzig has again banned tomorrow's rally of the extreme rightwing
party, after the courts have given their go-ahead. The city council argued
that this step was necessary due to the anticipated number of participants
both in the rally and the anti-demonstrations. Since the verdict of the
court that the rally could take place was made public during this morning,
radical left-wing groups from all over Germany have announced their
intention to stage violent protest demonstrations. As Leipzig does not have
sufficient police forces to deal with the expected riots, the ban on the
right-wing demonstration was mandatory.
Meanwhile the German President Roman Herzog has appealed to the nation to
fight right-wing extremism and xenophobia at their roots. Children should be
educated towards more humanity both at home and at school.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-30-6>
<H1>
Munich airport: second terminal by 2003
</H1>
The new airport in Munich will have a second passenger terminal by the year
2003, after the board of directors of the Flughafen Muenchen GmbH [owner of
the airport] has approved of the project. The German airline Lufthansa will
bear 40 % of the costs involved. According to figures from the Bavarian
Ministry of Economics the expansion of the airport will create about 30,000
new jobs in the region.

