<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-1>
<H1>
German reactions to Labour's victory in Britain mainly positive
</H1>
German politicians thought the land-slide victory of Britain's Labour Party
at the polls was an encouraging sign, and German Social Democrats want to
take a leaf out of Tony Blair's book, on how to defeat a Conservative
government. Chancellor Kohl, who at the time was visiting Brunei, also
commented favourably on the Labour Party's victory, as John Major had been
critical of EU policies (Mr Kohl's pet project)

<P>
The CDU hopes Mr Blair's EU-policies will be more constructive. The German
Conservatives thought their British counterparts had only themselves to
blame for their downfall, and the SPD was talking of a victory for European
Social Democrats. The SPD's manager, Mr Muentefering, said that his party
should be able to follow the Labour Party's example without aping them:
"A party that shows ability and will to innovate and look at the future will
have the chance to defeat conservative politics. The Tories had been in
term himself, and that will be his last one." Lower Saxony's
Premier Schroeder, of the SPD, thought that Labour succeeded because they
combined modern economic policies with consideration of social issues.
General manager of the CDU Hintze pointed out that there were differences
between the SPD and Labour. "New Labour, Tony Blair's party, takes stands
that would make the SPD pale in comparison. For example, they are for lower
tax-rates to make Great Britain competitive in the international arena."
According to Mr Hintze, Britain's voters did not want to put up with their
country's EU-policies consisting of U-turns (without the E). And they also
proved that the idea of pure capitalism without any social safeguards would
still be like a body with no blood.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-2>
<H1>
Mr Kinkel visits Slovakia
</H1>
Today Foreign Minister Kinkel visited Chechia and assured Slovakian leaders
that Germany would back them on their way into the EU. They should keep
up the reforms, according to Mr Kinkel (who implicitly was referring to
Slovakia's internal problems), as that would help the process of getting
integrated into NATO and EU. Western countries had repeatedly criticised the
country's authoritarian leadership, and had also asked for civil rights to
be respected. Opposition members think they get suppressed, and accuse
government of making sure only people close to them get jobs in politics
and business. That was why Mr Kinkel asked for a clear commitment to
pluralism. He praised the country's economic success-stories, yet at the
same time asked for a better environment to stimulate investment by German
companies.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-3>
<H1>
Federal government wants to dismantle state-housing system step by step
</H1>
Federal Minister for Construction and Housing Toepfer presented
draft-legislation that would cause huge cuts to the state-housing rent
system, in line with general cost-cutting and belt-tightening measures.
The reason for the planned measures: more fairness. At the same time
Mr Toepfer admitted, however, that once the draft would have become law
less people would be eligible for state-housing compared to the present
system.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-4>
<H1>
Iran criticises EU's Iran policies
</H1>
The Iran's spiritual leaders once again criticised the EU's policies as far
as the Mykonos verdict was concerned. When Ayatollah Yanati said this
Friday's prayers, he asked for the recalled ambassadors to stay at home. The
EU had left it up to the member states if they wanted to send their
ambassadors back to Iran or not. Iran's foreign minister then had declared
that neither Germany's nor Denmark's ambassadors were welcome any more.
Meanwhile the Greens asked for an extraordinary session of the committee on
foreign affairs to deal with Bonn's Iranian policies. Mr Kinkel should then
explain why government had not taken the initiative themselves, by
dispensing with trying to send the German ambassador back to Iran.

<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-5>
<H1>
SPD-party congress in Hamburg
</H1>
The SPD are bracing themselves for state elections in Hamburg, and they
intend to have 55-year old State Premier Voscherau run again. But before
they cast their votes, delegates had a look at the British scene.
Today Mr Lafontaine and Mr Voscherau congratulated Mr Blair to his party's
victory in the British elections. Mr Lafontaine also welcomed Tony Blair's
statement that the European Social Charter was no problem for him. So far
the latter does not apply to England, Scotland and Wales. Europe without
minimum standards for workers, yet pure capitalism instead, was not on,
according to Mr Lafontaine. Like Mr Voscherau he defended the SPD's plans
for tax-reform and accused the CDU/CSU of having thrown a spanner in the
works last week, when a compromise on tax-reform was getting closer.


<DOC de-news-1997-05-02-6>
<H1>
Council of Trade Unions pessimistic on labour-market trends
</H1>
There will be no noticeable improvement on the labour-market this April,
according to the union. Ms Engelen-Kefer, deputy head of the Council of
Trade Unions (DGB), said in Dusseldorf that the usual seasonal upturn had
not managed to push the number of unemployed under the 4.3 million mark.

