<DOC de-news-1998-06-03-1>
<H1>
Worst rail disaster in 2 decades: over 100 dead
</H1>
The worst rail accident in Germany in 20 years has claimed more than 100
lives. Several hundred passengers were also injured; many are in critical
condition. The Munich-Hamburg InterCity Express derailed by the Eschede
station at about 11:00 am. Four of the rail cars smashed into the bridge's
support structure. The force of the impact made the bridge collapse,
burying the rail cars underneath. Over 1000 helpers are still busy at the
accident scene this evening, searching for survivors, although the
likelihood of finding any at this point is considered minimal. The state
government of Lower Saxony and the German Railway have released 1 million
DM each for immediate aid. The population at large has responded with a
wave of readiness to help. Hundreds heeded a call from the German Red
Cross for blood donations to help the injured.
The actual cause of the disaster was a subject of intense speculation
throughout the day. Initially it was thought that a vehicle, parked on the
bridge by a railway employee working on the tracks, had got loose and
fallen onto the tracks below; however this theory was thrown out when it
was found that the engine of the train was undamaged. In fact, the engine
became detached from the rest of the train during the course of the
accident, for reasons as yet unknown. As of the time of this report (22:00
CEDT), two rail cars remain buried beneath the rubble of the bridge;
special cranes are being used to advance the rescue work. The clean-up
will continue late into the night.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-03-2>
<H1>
New government spokesman under fire
</H1>
Government spokesman Hauser has defended his position on the behaviour of
Eastern Germans regarding the coming federal election. Hauser said in Bonn
that he has nothing to take back of what he said. He added that federal
programmes for rebuilding the East were in no way threatened after his
comments.
The controversy stems from an earlier newspaper interview in which he
warned the people of former East Germany not to put the feelings of
solidarity held by their Western German compatriots at risk through their
behaviour in the election. He admonished that Westerners' helpfulness must
not be strained to the breaking point through the election of left-wing
extremists in the East. Hauser's comments were met with criticism from the
Opposition, but also from within the governing Coalition. Vice-chairman of
the CDU, Bergner, described Hauser's statements as "unfortunate". The
vice-chairman of the FDP, Piper, called on Chancellor Kohl to take an
official position on the issue.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-03-3>
<H1>
Merkel: nuclear power companies' suggestions do not go far enough
</H1>
Federal Environment Minister Merkel has indicated that suggestions made by
the nuclear power companies for greater safety in transporting nuclear
waste are insufficient. She also spoke in favour of a new round of talks
in Bonn about the energy industry, at which no matter could be allowed to
be treated as taboo. The state governments in Schleswig-Holstein and Lower
Saxony accused the minister of having neglected her supervisory duties,
saying that it was a scandal when the responsible ministers also sat on
the boards of directors of the energy companies. SPD environment critic
Mueller said that the state and federal administrations must lay all the
facts on the table. The Social Democrats objected, however, to what they
saw as an attempt by Merkel to download responsibility onto the states.
Mueller also said that Germany should get out of the atomic energy
business altogether - that it could be done and that now was the time to
set the process in motion.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-03-4>
<H1>
World's most modern brown coal power plant opened in Brandenburg
</H1>
The most modern brown coal power plant has come on-line in Brandenburg.
State premier, Stolpe, speaking at the inauguration of the plant in the
town of Schwarze Pumpe, emphasized that the plant meant that generating
electricity using local coal would remain an important aspect of German
energy policies. The 4.5 billion DM plant features an advanced technology
for environmental protection. The facility is among the largest
private-sector investments in Eastern Germany. Chancellor Kohl, also at
the plant's opening, emphasized that creating jobs was and would remain
Germany's greatest priority, and everyone had to do his share.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-03-5>
<H1>
Schleswig-Holstein to hold referendum on spelling reform
</H1>
Schleswig-Holstein will be holding a referendum on the controversial plan
for spelling reform. So far 160,000 signatures have been gathered - 50,000
more than necessary to force the state government to call a referendum on
the issue. The final result of the petition is expected to be released on
June 11.

