<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-1>
<H1>
Collective bargaining dispute aggravates
</H1>
The collective bargaining dispute in the retail trade is coming to a head. If
today's negotiations between unions and employers in Saarland and Hesse remain
unsuccessful, strikes will continue nationwide. The HBV and DAG unions thus want
to speed up an agreement. In the Bavarian retail trade, the dispute has led to
the first employee lock-out. ausgesperrt. About 25 employees of the Norma
central warehouse in Regensburg were stopped by a private security service this
morning. About a dozen guards carried truncheons and handcuffs and blocked the
warehouse entrance for employees who had participated in strikes last week.
Previously, the workers had received written notices threatening their
termination of their contracts. The HBV called these actions illegal and
suggested emergency court decisions to block the actions. There was no reaction
from the employers. The main point of controversy centers on union demands for
extra pay for work performed after 6 p.m. on weekdays and 2 p.m. on Saturdays.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-2>
<H1>
Politicians on the anniversary of the erection of the Wall
</H1>
On the 35th anniversary of the erection of the Berlin Wall, leading politicians
called on the completion of internal unification. Chancellor Kohl said that the
memory of August 31, 1961 was a reminder to defend liberty, democracy, and human
rights. Almost seven years after the fall of the Wall, the former border between
the two Germanys is finally free of mines, according to the Federal Ministry of
Defense. So far, high-ranking military officers as well as leading GDR
politicians have been sentenced in connection with the firing orders on the
former border. The minister president of Saxony-Anhalt, Hoeppner, described the
Wall as a document of inhuman separation of a people. Speaking on
Deutschlandfunk radio on the eve of the anniversary, the SPD politician also
pointed out that the border wall had been a result of the war. He expressed his
disappointment in the fact that the federal government refused to participate in
a museum project initiated by Saxony-Anhalt at the former border crossing point
Helmstedt-Marienborn. The secretary general of the CDU, Hintze, said in Bonn
that political extremism should never again have a chance in Germany. The memory
of the Wall should newly sharpen the perception of the dividing line between
radicals and democrats. Anyone crossing this line today, Hintze said, betrays
the victims of the Wall and disrespects the struggle of those who fought for
democracy, liberty, and self-determination.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-3>
<H1>
Seiters cautions against escalation in Chechnya
</H1>
The vice-chairman of the CDU/CSU parliamentary group, Seiters, cautioned
against an escalation in the armed conflict in Chechnya, following remarks by
Russian head of government Victor Chernomyrdin to send military reinforcements
to the Caucausus republic. Seiters said it would be desirable for Chernomyrdin
to continue taking his willingness to negotiate seriously. The goal should be an
extensive political and cultural autonomy of Chechnya within the Russian
federation.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-4>
<H1>
Scharping opposes VAT raise
</H1>
The leader of the SPD parliamentary group, Rudolf Scharping, opposes a
raise of the VAT rate because it would burden demand and, as a consequence, the
business cycle. In an interview on Suedwestfunk radio, Scharping said such a
measure would affect mainly pensioners and families with children. He called for
a clear tax concept. He said that the SPD supports the lowering of the tax
burden for average wage earners and  high achievers and cuts in subsidies.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-5>
<H1>
Tax experts demand lowering of income tax rates
</H1>
Tax experts continue to call for the lowering of tax rates for all levels of
income. A bottom rate of below 20 percent and a maximum rate of below 50 percent
would be efficient, the former head of the Commission for Income Tax Reform,
Bareis, said on Deutschlandfunk radio. According to Bareis, the pivotal point
still is the abolition of individual privileges, even against party interests.
Bareis also opposed the recent discussion on raising the VAT rate, saying that
income tax reform has priority. Only then would it be possible to discuss
whether a VAT rate hike would be necessary.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-6>
<H1>
FDP executive board discusses current topics
</H1>
The FDP federal executive board met in Potsdam to discuss current
topics. According to the party, the focus was on tax policies. The federal board
and the Brandenburg state executive board then discussed the state of the
Liberals in east Germany where the FDP is not represented in any state
parliament. Next year, the FDP intends to invite its members to a party
referendum on the abolishment of the military draft, Mr. Gerhardt, head of the
FDP, announced in Potsdam after the meeting. He said that draft fairness would
be at risk if the armed forces were reduced to below 340,000 soldiers. This
would automatically bring up the question of a professional army. The FDP plans
to discuss the issue at a closed meeting in the fall. Gerhardt also emphasized
the intention to realize the planned tax reform within the current legislative
period and said that the FDP would urge the lowering of the maximum tax rate
from 53 Prozent to 40 percent before the 1998 federal elections.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-7>
<H1>
UN Climate Secretariat opens Bonn offices
</H1>
The UN Climate Secretariat began work in its Bonn offices today. The employees
moved from Geneva, where the secretariat was founded. Within the next six
months, the staff will double in size to 80 employees. According to mayor
Baerbel Diekmann, the new UN offices are the first step towards the former
capital's new future as a city for congresses and seat of international
organizations, this being the only way to handle the move of most of the
government to Berlin. The formation of the climate secretariat was decided four
years ago at the UN environment summit in Rio de Janeiro. Its difficult task is
to promote realization and further development of the so-called climate frame
convention to which more than 150 countries belong; however, most industrialized
and developing nations have only agreed in a general way to reduce harmful
emissions to the 1990 level by the year 2000. Chancellor Kohl agreed to reduce
carbon dioxide emissions in Germany by one quarter (compared to the 1990 level)
until the year 2005. In order to translate these declarations of intent into
action, the next international climate congress will take place in Bonn as early
as next spring.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-8>
<H1>
Land in eastern Germany half as expensive as in the West
</H1>
Building lots in eastern Germany still cost less than half of what
they cost in western Germany. The Fed. Dept. of Statistics reported that at the
beginning of 1996, a square meter in the West cost an average of DM 95, compared
to DM 44 in the East. Investors have to pay DM 134 for developed lots in the
former Federal Republic but only DM 70 in the new states.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-9>
<H1>
Police tries out new testing devices
</H1>
A trial run of drug testing devices in road traffic started today in
Baden-Wuerttemberg. The country's first test is taking place in the Waiblingen
area will last a year. Waiblingen soll ein Jahr lang dauern. According to police
reports, the devices can measure even minor traces of drugs. The police
considers the drug testing device an important help in deciding whether an
individual's blood or urine should be tested.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-10>
<H1>
Weapons smuggler arrested
</H1>
Customs investigators in Nuremberg have tracked down a gun-runner from the
Bamberg area. Following his arrest, the 38-year old industrial trader confessed.
During a search of the man's farm, investigators found two loaded guns and
several hundredrounds of ammunition for which the suspect had no permit. They
also found documents indicating weapons and ammunitions purchases were made in
Austria. After he confessed to selling the guns to acquaintances, three
apartment searches resulted in the discovery of the weapons as well as the
ammunition. Criminal proceedings were initiated for all persons involved. The
investigations continue.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-12-11>
<H1>
Return match between light-heavyweighters announced
</H1>
Following the controversial draw in the WBO world championship fight
between boxers Dariusz Michalczewski and Graciano Rocchigiani, there will be a
return match on December 7 in Hanover. The first championship duel between
light-heavyweighters Michalczewski, who is the current WBO world champion, and
his challenger Rocchigiani ended in a technical draw last Saturday.

