<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-1>
<H1>
Criticism of IG Metall's suggestion for reducing unemployment
</H1>
The suggestion put forward by Zwickel, the leader of the IG
Metall union, that a 32 hour week should be introduced as of 1999, with
no accompanying adjustment in wages, has met with little support from
the ruling coalition or from employers' organisations. Hundt, the
president of one employers' organisation, stressed that it would be
wrong to continue reducing the working week as a means of fighting
unemployment; Zwickel's ideas would merely result in a kind of
"shortage management." Hausmann, a government spokesman, reacted
cautiously to the suggestion. He said that it was interesting, but not
all of the details had been made public yet. Schaeuble, the leader of
the CDU parliamentary group in the Bundestag, said that there was no
shortage of work in Germany, but rather the problem is that it is too
expensive to employ people, so it is unlikely that new jobs would be
created if hours were cut,as this might cause wage-costs to rise even
more. Rexrodt, the federal minister of economics, also rejected the
idea, and called instead for more flexible working patterns. Zwickel's
suggestion did find some support, though - from Oskar Lafontaine, the
leader of the SPD, and from Schulte, the leader of the German Trade
Union Federation, who said that the idea would provide an opportunity
to discuss the chances of success of this type of strategy. He said
that it would certainly bring new life into the discussion.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-2>
<H1>
Extensive police inquiries in Thomy extortion case
</H1>
In connection with the Thomy extortion case, the
police have been desperately searching for poisoned groceries at a
'Lidl' supermarket. A spokesman for the police said that he feared
that some of the poisoned goods had already been bought. By the
afternoon, no tampered-with products had been found at the branch of
Lidl, unlike at the 'Plus' supermarket in Saarbruecken and the 'Condi'
supermarket in Regensburg, where tubes of mustard had been poison with
hydrocyanic acid; these three stores had been expressly named by the
extortionist. The police are still searching the third store. The
products that had been tampered with are still being examined. The
Nestle company, which owns the firm Thomy, has already said that it
will pay the extortionists if necessary in order to protect its
customers, but there has been no contact between the company and the
extortionists, according to a company spokesman, nor is the amount
which the extortionists have demanded known.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-3>
<H1>
Sentence pronounced against Aldi extortioner
</H1>
A 59 year old pensioner has been given a five year jail
sentence because of his attempts to blackmail the 'Aldi' supermarket
chain and a millionaire's family in Duesseldorf. While pronouncing the
sentence at the Regional Court in Essen, the judge emphasised his
opinion that it is particularly despicable to blackmail shops which
sell food, as it is almost impossible for them to protect themselves
against such threats. The convicted man had threatened last summer to
poison food-stuffs in 'Aldi' shops unless the firm paid him a million
Swiss francs.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-4>
<H1>
Federal cabinet adopts 14th yearly report on disarmament
</H1>
Klaus Kinkel, the foreign minister, has said that Germany's
safety and international safety in general can only be guaranteed
through disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction. After the federal cabinet adopted the 14th yearly report
on disarmament today, Kinkel spoke about the treaty which forbids any
testing of atomic weapons, saying that 142 countries have signed the
treaty, including the five atomic powers, and all have pledged that
they will not carry out any nuclear testing. As well as this, Kinkel
continued, the preconditions for the acceptance of the agreement on
chemical weapons, which will lead to such weapons being forbidden on
an international scale, have already been met.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-5>
<H1>
Construction industry still in trouble
</H1>
The federal government has said that it believes that the
construction industry is still in an economically very weak position; the
recession in the industry is not expected to end until 1998 at the
earliest. The cabinet has decided to bring in a range of measures
intended to improve the economic situation in the industry.
Improvements are to be made in the inspection of building sites and
German firms are to be considered preferentially in the awarding of
government contracts. The government thinks that the social partners
involved in collective bargaining must accept some change, and that an
agreement must be reached quickly on the question of winter pay (for
times when no work can be carried out). The government has rejected a
reintroduction of 'bad-weather-money', which was paid when the weather
stopped building work, and an extension of other supplementary
payments was also rejected.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-6>
<H1>
Allianz to pay Nazi victims' claims
</H1>
The Allianz insurance company has agreed to pay any
possible claims by victims of the Nazis without the need for great
formalities. Rupprecht, the president of the company, announced today
in Stuttgart that the company will try everything to clear up all the
events in this regard. In cases where there is some doubt, the
credibility of the claimant will suffice and no proof will be needed
from the insurance police. Survivors of the Nazi persecution of the
Jews and heirs of the victims in the USA are suing seven European
insurance companies for millions of dollars; they accuse the companies of
not paying out on policies of victims of the Nazis after the war.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-7>
<H1>
Confession in Bavaria's biggest toxic waste scandal
</H1>
The principal defendant in Bavaria's biggest toxic waste
trial ever has admitted his part in the scandal. He confirmed at the
Regional Court that he dumped more than 40 containers of, in part,
highly poisonous cyanide compounds along motorways in Bavaria in the
autumn of 1995. The 47 year old defendant said, however, that he did
not know how dangerous the contents of the containers were. He is
standing trial with an accomplice and two former managers of a firm in
Nuremberg, where the poisonous material originated.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-8>
<H1>
Public prosecutor calls for reconviction of Monika Boettcher
</H1>
The public prosecutor has called for Monika Boettcher, 38, to
be reconvicted in the retrial of her case at the Regional Court in
Giessen. The prosecution considers it proven that Boettcher killed
both her daughters, aged five and seven. Boettcher claims, however,
that she found her children dead when she entered her flat on the
night of 3rd August 1986 and she accused her then-husband, Reinhard
Weimar, of having murdered them. In the original trial, the Regional
Court at Fulda convicted Boettcher of both murders and sentenced her
to life imprisonment.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-9>
<H1>
Petition for referendum against spelling reform is permissible
</H1>
The committee for interior and legal questions of the state
parliament in Schleswig-Holstein has decided that the petition for a
referendum against the spelling reform is formally permissible. The
20,000 signatures collected on the petition are valid. The committee
had already decided at the start of February that the originators of
the petition were pursuing a permissible goal. The decision of the
committee must now be confirmed by the state parliament.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-10>
<H1>
Iranian Foreign Minister promises: Germans safe in Iran
</H1>
One day before the pronouncement of judgement in the
'Mykonos' trail in Berlin, the Iranian foreign minister, Welajati
(sp?), has given his assurance that Germans living in Iran are
perfectly safe. He told the press in Teheran that, whatever the
judgement might be, the property and personal safety of German
citizens is not in danger. Last Monday, the foreign office in Bonn
advised that German citizens should not travel to Iran, or, if a trip
cannot be cancelled, that citizens should stay in contact with the
German embassy. The judgement of the Berlin Regional Court is awaited
with suspense around the world. While summing up, the Federal Public
Prosecutor's Office accused the Iranian government of having
commissioned the killing of the four Iranian dissidents in Berlin.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-11>
<H1>
Scientology human rights case not accepted
</H1>
The case brought against the Federal Republic of Germany
by the Scientology Organisation at the European Commission on Human
Rights has been rejected. A spokesman for the Commission in Strasbourg
said that the case was not permissible as the legal possibilities in
Germany had not been exhausted. The Scientologists had accused Germany
of discriminating against their organisation.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-12>
<H1>
Price of beef drops by 11 per cent due to BSE
</H1>
The price of beef has dropped by eleven per cent in the last
year thanks to the BSE scandal. The Federal Ministry for Agriculture
announced that the price for wholesalers has also fallen by around
eleven per cent. The price of pork, however, has risen by around seven
per cent, also due to the discussion of mad cow disease.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-13>
<H1>
Preussen-Elektra has record profits
</H1>
The electricity generating firm Preussen-Elektra has ended
the year with record profits. According to Haarich (sp?), the
president of the board at the firm, the profits were DM 1.86 billion
after tax, which represents around DM 800 million more than in the
previous year. The firm's turnover, however, dropped by nearly three
per cent to DM 15.4 billion and 2,000 workers had been sacked, leaving
22,000. Preussen-Elektra, which belongs to the firm Veba, is the
biggest producer of atomic energy in Germany and Haarich said that
nuclear power should be kept as a source of energy.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-14>
<H1>
Daimler-Benz opens new engine factory in Stuttgart
</H1>
The firm Daimler-Benz has opened a new factory in the Bad
Cannstatt area of Stuttgart. From the end of 1998, more than 300,000
engines will be produced per year. Schrempp (sp?), the president of
Daimler-Benz said that the new factory is proof that even in the
future, the firm will be able to invest in profitable factories
Germany; in total 1,200 jobs will be created at the plant.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-09-15>
<H1>
Soccer: European cup
</H1>
FC Schalke 04 lost to CD Teneriffa in the first match of the European
cup semi-finals yesterday; the score was one-nil, the winning goal was
a penalty.

