<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-1>
<H1>
National convention of German Federation of Unions
</H1>
The chairman of the German Federation of Unions (DGB), Schulte,
opened the convention by sharply criticizing the government and employers.
In his opening speech, Schulte said that the federal government and
employers were putting social peace on the line. He reproached employers,
saying that cutting workers' sick pay was degrading; the unions would
defend full wages during sick-leave - both in the private and public
sectors - with renewed vigour. "Tough talks lie ahead", he warned. He also
said that the unions had shown their opponents that they could fight.
Before an audience of 600 delegates, Schulte called for a redistribution
of wealth, from the top to the bottom. However, he did acknowledge the
need to reform the social security net and wage agreements. The leadership
of the DGB is also sticking to its goal of halving unemployment in Germany
by the year 2000, as affirmed by a paper from the committee. At the
government's doorstep Schulte laid blame for the "awful autumn", for
social unrest in the workplace, for economic damages, and for a poisoned
atmosphere in German society. Schulte called on the delegates to approve a
new statement of principles, saying that now was the time to lead the way
in a new direction.
The programme of the convention, which lasts until Saturday, includes
passing a new set of guiding principles, and so defining the DGB's
political course. Although the new set of principles has been under
discussion for more than 3 years, over 570 applications for changes have
been made at the convention. The old set has been in place since 1981 and
centers on the opposition between work and capital. The new set is
expected to contain a statement that the social market economy is better
suited for reaching the unions' goals than any other system. Such a
statement is opposed by several individual unions. The boss of the
IG-Metall union, Zwickel, has threatened to allow the convention to
collapse if the new declaration of principles was not accepted. Zwickel
said the world had changed since 1981; if the new declaration were
rejected, his union would leave.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-2>
<H1>
Clash over cuts to employment budget
</H1>
One day before the budget committee's final talks about the budget
for 1997, the government and the opposition clashed in the Bundestag over
cuts to the Federal Employment Office. SPD representative Ostertag called
for Employment Minister Blum's resignation because he could no longer do
anything to help the unemployed; cutting another billion marks from next
year's budget would lead to even higher unemployment. Another
representative from the same party, Andres, said that the cuts would
eliminate 40,000 retraining positions. Blum said that only projects in
West Germany would be affected. He emphasized that it made sense to take
advantage of new measures such as wage cost supplements, and in return to
cut make-work projects and retraining programs.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-3>
<H1>
Former boss of East German border troops arrested
</H1>
One day after the Federal Constitutional Court made a
precedent-setting ruling on the fatal shootings at the former
German-German border, Klaus-Dieter Baumgarten, former leader of the East
German border troops, has been arrested. A speaker for the justice
department said the issuing of a warrant for the arrest, on suspicion of
the murder of East German refugees, followed from yesterday's ruling by
the Federal Constitutional Court. In early September, Baumgarten was
sentenced to 6.5 years' imprisonment by the regional court in Berlin for
the deaths of East German refugees at the German-German border and the
Berlin Wall The court found that he had signed the yearly orders for
securing the East German border, which contained orders to use firearms,
and to lay mines and gun nests with trip wires.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-4>
<H1>
Significant correction to state insurance savings law
</H1>
The CDU/CSU and FDP have introduced a significant correction in
their savings plans for state insurance agencies. The agencies will be
able to raise their rates without automatically increasing their
customers' percent excess. The condition is that the agencies can only
raise their rates if they had to pay into the risk equalization fund, or
if they did not receive enough from the fund. Furthermore, they must prove
that they could not avoid a budget deficit despite all efforts. The first
law re-organizing state health insurance was changed accordingly; it goes
to the Bundestag for approval the day after tomorrow.
The SPD again threw heavy criticism at the government's health reform
bills. The party fears that customers will be faced with higher premiums
and supplementary charges in 1997 which could add up to several thousand
marks.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-5>
<H1>
Revised vehicle emissions tax to come into effect April 1
</H1>
The federal government wants the new emissions tax law to take
effect on April 1 next year. The Bundestag's finance committee passed the
bill over the objections of the opposition. The taxation change is not
expected to pass the Bundesrat. The law provides for tax breaks of between
250 and 1,200 marks, depending on the emission levels of each vehicle

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-6>
<H1>
All-party bill on non-smokers' rights
</H1>
Non-smokers are to be legally protected from second-hand smoke in
the workplace. That is the content of a bill which 136 representative from
CDU/CSU, SPD, and FDP presented in Bonn today. The bill threatens fines
for violations. Employers will pay up to 5,000 marks if they fail to apply
the new rules. The bill allows for separate smoking areas to be
established for smokers. A general ban on smoking will be in effect for
all public buildings and transit services. In hotels and restaurants,
owners will continue to be able to decide for themselves how to proceed.
Yesterday, the Greens presented a bill which would also ban smoking in
restaurants.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-7>
<H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg: study fees protested; multi-media supported
</H1>
Approximately 600 university students demonstrated against the
introduction of tuition fees in front of Baden-Wurttemberg's Landtag
today. The protest was directed at a new state law which establishes a
registration fee of 100 marks per semester, or 1000 marks per semester for
those who take longer than the prescribed amount of time to complete their
programmes.

<P>
This morning the Landtag discussed modern communications technology. The
state government announced it would continue to support research in
multimedia. The Landtag rejected a motion by the opposition SPD to carry
on with a multi-million mark multi-media project which failed two weeks
ago.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-8>
<H1>
Crisis of Baden-Wurttemberg sporting associations
</H1>
Baden-Wurttemberg's sporting associations are in crisis. One
day after his resignation as president of the state's Sporting
Association, former Stuttgart mayor Thieringer also resigned as president
of the Wurttemberg Sports Federation. Thieringer said that for reasons of
personal dignity he was removing himself from a dispute with President
Heffner of the Baden Sports Federation, which often got personal.
Thieringer said "I have been defamed long enough. It was time to act."

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-9>
<H1>
Judgement in Wolfratshausen finance scandal trial
</H1>
In the second trial about the tax scandal in Wolfratshausen, the
regional court in Munich sentenced a 43-year-old finance official to 2.5
years in jail. The court found the accused guilty of tax evasion and
taking a bribe. The man did not act out of greed, the judgement went, but
to help friends and family. Restitution has already been made for the
damages - 304,000 marks.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-10>
<H1>
Fritsche to be new boss of Baden-Wurttemberg metal-industry employers
</H1>
Klaus Fritsche, member of the board of Alcatel-SEL, is to
become the new boss of the Baden-Wurttemberg employers' association in the
metals industry. In January, Fritsche will replace Dieter Hundt, the
designated boss of the National Employers' Federation.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-13-11>
<H1>
On our own behalf
</H1>
An unfortunate error prevented the publication of up-to-date market data
yesterday; the information given was from 5 November 1996.

