<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-1>
<H1>
Special EU conference in Brussels on Kosovo situation
</H1>
In Brussels, European Union heads of state and government concluded their
discussions with UN Secretary-General Annan regarding a peace settlement
for Kosovo. Chancellor Schroeder stressed the European leaders' support
for the UN initiative and said they are striving for a corresponding
resolution from the Security Council. It is now up to Belgrade to fulfill
all conditions required by the international community. Germany, via its
control of the EU Council presidency, is advocating a closer connection
between the UN and Russia. According to French proposals, the Security
Council could issue a mandate for an international peacekeeping force, and
transfer the administration of Kosovo to the European Union. British Prime
Minister Blair emphasized that the basis for any peace arrangement would
have to be the five conditions that NATO has required of Yugoslavian
President Milosevic. The Alliance as well as the US Government welcomed
the German initiative, which among other things provides for a 24 hour
ceasefire after Serbian forces begin to withdraw from Kosovo. The
Yugoslavian President again rejected any international military presence
in the region; PDS faction leader Gysi, who had spoken to President
Milosevic in Belgrade, said only civilian observers would be considered.
Similar statements were made by President Lukaschenko of Belarus.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-2>
<H1>
Renewed Serbian attacks on Albania/Further NATO strikes
</H1>
Serbian military forces again fired on the north of Albania today.
According to reports from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE), locations close to the border were shelled. Nobody was hurt
however. NATO spokesperson Sheye warned Yugoslavia against further
encroachments on Albanian territory, saying such actions would have
serious consequences. In Bonn, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Defense
acknowledge the loss of another unmanned reconnaissance aircraft. It was
unclear whether the so-called drone had been shot down, or if it crashed.
The German armed forces already lost a similar aircraft on Monday.
According to Serbian reports, NATO strikes in Kosovo hit a refugee convoy.
Brussels did acknowledge that NATO aircraft had attacked vehicles
travelling by road, however refused to confirm Serbian reports of the dead
and injured.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-3>
<H1>
Schulte: Labor policies part of the "Alliance for Work"
</H1>
Talks regarding an "Alliance for Work" cannot be conducted in isolation
from wage policies, according to the president of the German Trade Union
Federation (DGB), Schulte, speaking from Stuttgart. That would simply be
out of the question, he said. For example he stressed, if retirement at
age 60 or tariff funds were to be discussed, that would also involve a
discussion of wage policies. Wage guidelines however, have no place in
this discussion. The deputy chief of the IG-Metall union, Peter, also
refused to talk about collective bargaining agreements in the context of
the "Alliance for Work." In an interview with the magazine "Stern", he
leveled specific criticism at employers, accusing them of preparing to
abandon the Alliance.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-4>
<H1>
Employment offices uncover 0.5 million illegal jobs in 1998
</H1>
In the past year, employment offices in Germany have uncovered more than
406,000 incidents of illegal jobs. This was reported from Wiesbaden by
Labor Minister Riester. The amount of fines and penalties rose 52 million
DM compared to 1997, reaching 225 million DM in total. In addition,
penalties imposed by the customs offices totaled 11.5 million DM. The
majority of illegal jobs were found at construction sites.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-5>
<H1>
Wage negotiations in the retail trade postponed until May
</H1>
The wage negotiations for the retail trade in Baden-Wuerttemberg, taking
place in Ludwigsburg, have been adjourned until May 6. The unions insist
on a 6.5% increase in pay. In addition, the Trade, Bank, and Insurance
Employees Union (HBV) requires a guaranteed minimum income of 2500 DM a
month for full time employees. The employers have yet to present an offer.
As a result of the wage disagreement in the banking industry, the unions
have called for warning strikes tomorrow in North Rhine-Westphalia and
Berlin.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-14-6>
<H1>
Federal government begins the move to Berlin
</H1>
This afternoon in Bonn, the federal government began its move to Berlin.
By truck and train, documents and office materials of the Interior and
Economic Ministries are being shipped to Berlin. The Bundestag plans to
move in July.

