<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-1>
<H1>
On our own behalf: third anniversary of GermNews
</H1>
Today we celebrate the third anniversary of our GermNews project (parent of
the daily translation, De-News, which you now have before you). As the
editor, I would like to take this occasion once again to address our readers
and colleagues directly.

<P>
The past year has been a very successful one for GermNews: Our mailing list
is unchallenged as the largest listserv-based list in Germany. DOS-PC
Magazine ranked us in the top 5% of German websites (see
http://www.webtip.de). Another computing magazine, com!, dedicated three
full pages to our undertaking in its November edition. Also, in addition to
our normal daily work, we responded to popular demand with a bilingual daily
summary of results from the Olympic Summer Games in Atlanta. A further
highlight was the survey of our readers' week-end activities.

<P>
All of the above, however, must not hide the fact that the last year also
presented some difficulties. For example, during two months of the summer,
the German-language edition was produced by only three dedicated workers.
Often during that period we had to think about the unintentional pun created
when purely technical considerations shortened our full name "German News"
to that of an apparent bacterial journal "GermNews". Fortunately, the
manpower situation had been eased by later in the year.

<P>
I would like to use this opportunity to thank our readers again this year
for the attention they have given us. Through many letters to the editor we
have learned where and how we can continue to improve our service. Thus, we
are planning on implementing a full-text archival search function on our
website in the coming year. If an opportunity presents itself, we will also
think about a new look for our website; rest assured, however, the
information will always be our first priority.

<P>
We would like also to express our gratitude to the listserv team of the GMD
in St. Augustin and the Department for Applied Information Processing at the
University of Ulm for their usual excellent technical support.

<P>
Finally, hearty thanks must also go to all of the transcribers and
translators, who, in a spirit of team-work and with astonishing selfdiscipline, contribute regularly - and for no pay - to the success of
GermNews and De-News. At this point I would like to single out Marion
Sonnenfeld and Rainer Schulze, adding my best wishes for a speedy recovery.

<P>
In the spring of 1997, a GermNews Foundation will be created, the goal
of which will be to support our work. This foundation, as a non-profit
society, will be able to answer readers asking where they can send
donations. It will also be the place where potential sponsors can make
contact with the project. Obviously, readers will have the possibility of
supporting GermNews by taking out a membership in the foundation.

<P>
To all the readers and colleagues of GermNews and De-News, I wish you a
pleasant holiday season, a merry Christmas, and then a happy New Year.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-2>
<H1>
German-French summit in Nuremberg
</H1>
Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President Jacques Chirac want to boost
European integration. In a joint letter to the Presidency of the European
Council currently held by Ireland, the two heads of government outline their
initiative for more intensive co-operation in inner security. According to
members of the German delegation, the German Chancellor and the French
President suggest to nominate a commissioner for inner security in Europe.
Germany in particular is pushing to give the European police organization
Europol more authority, such as the right to conduct independent
investigations against internationally operating criminals. In addition, a
motion regarding future German-French military co-operation will be tabled.

<P>
At the meeting between Kohl and Chirac, a government treaty regarding mutual
recognition of handicraft master certificates was signed.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-3>
<H1>
German-Czech declaration finalized
</H1>
The Prague government has confirmed that the declaration on the
reconciliation between Germany and the Czech Republic has been finished. The
Czech foreign minister was quoted saying the text had been given its final
wording. He and his German colleague want to approve the document on 20
December. In the declaration, which contains eight topics, the Czech
Republic regrets the expulsion and compulsory emigration of Sudetenland
Germans after World War II. The expropriation and withdrawal of citizenship
had caused much pain to innocent people. Germany deplores the wrong-doing by
the Nazi regime under which the Czech people had to suffer. The German
government supports strongly the Czech Republic's admission to the European
Union and NATO.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-4>
<H1>
Conflict about sick pay in banking defused
</H1>
The conflict about full sick pay in the private banking sector has been
defused for the time being. A spokeswoman of the trade, banking and
insurance union stated that the employers have agreed to pay full sick pay
until a final collective agreement had been reached. This is the result of
talks between the heads of union and employers in Frankfurt. The preliminary
agreement becomes effective immediately. About 460,000 employees work in the
banking sector. Later, a potential compensation will be discussed.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-5>
<H1>
Metal industry looks at Lower Saxony's collective bargaining results
</H1>
The collective agreement on sick pay in the Lower Saxony metal industry is
considered by other bargaining districts as a model. Union and employers in
Baden-Wuerttemberg continued their bargaining. The districts Bavaria, Coast,
Hesse, and West-Berlin announced to take up negotiations this week. Mr.
Zwickel, President of the metal industry union, called upon the regional
employers associations to copy the Lower-Saxon agreement word by word. Last
week, the bargaining parties in Lower Saxony had agreed to keep full sick
pay.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-6>
<H1>
Riester accuses Stumpfe of attacking the constitution
</H1>
Riester, the vice chairman of the metal industry union (IG Metall),
denounced calls for changes in the labor dispute law put forward by the head
of the metal employers' organisation, Mr. Stumpfe. Speaking on
Deutschlandfunk radio, Mr. Riester said Mr. Stumpfe's statement constituted
an attack on Germany's basic law which guaranteed the right to go on strike.
Mr. Riester called this right a distinguishing mark of democratic societies.
In order to avoid strikes, sensible solutions would have to be reached at
the negotiation table. Mr. Stumpfe, president of the employers'
organization, had spoken on Deutschlandfunk radio earlier and expressed his
opinion that the legal right to go on strike should be limited. He said that
businesses had almost no measures left in order to react adequately to the
unions' fighting strategies. Mr. Stumpfe's demand was widely criticized. The
unions, the SPD, and the FDP rejected the idea. Chancellor Kohl had a
statement released, saying that a legal intervention regarding the right to
go on strike was errant and out of the question for him and the government.
The German unions' association emphasized that this elementary workers'
right could not be subject to manipulation. A similar statement was made by
the chairman of the employees' organization DAG, Mr. Issen.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-7>
<H1>
Open dispute within the WTO
</H1>
An open dispute erupted within the World Trade Organization (WTO)
regarding the question whether elementary workers' rights should in the
future be part of the world trade system.  At the onset of WTO conference,
the U.S. und France have been the main advocates of such social
stipulations. Developing countries called the idea a hidden attempt at
protectionism. Guenther Rexrodt, the federal economic minister, cautioned
participants not to risk failure of the conference over this question. He
also expressed his optimism that there would be progress in opening markets
for information technologies.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-8>
<H1>
Aftermath of Henrichs remuneration affair
</H1>
Following a motion by the CDU and FDP state parliamentary groups
in Hesse, a parliamentary commission will look into the remuneration affair
surrounding Frankfurt court president Henrichs. The CDU/FDP opposition has
accused minister of justice Rupert von Plottnitz of refusing to solve the
matter completely. The motion followed an ultimatum set by the opposition.
CDU und FDP had asked von Plottnitz to present official statements from
those ministerial officers who had been concerned with the approval of the
IG Metall union's order for Henrichs. The minister had rejected this demand
as inadmissible. Henrichs had headed a commission that looked into the socalled union real estate scandal. IG Metall had paid him 1.34 mio. marks for
his services.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-9>
<H1>
Piech will express his regrets to General Motors
</H1>
The car manufacturer Volkswagen AG confirmed that its chairman of the board,
Ferdinand Piech, plans to convey to General Motors his deepest regrets
regarding the affair surrounding the manager Lopez. A spokesperson for VW
said the statement was part of an interview to be published in Stern
magazine this Thursday.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-10>
<H1>
Elbe river to be deepened
</H1>
The north German heads of state today made the political decision to deepen
the bed of the Elbe river. In a meeting with Hamburg mayor Henning
Voscherau, the minister presidents of Schleswig-Holstein, Heide Simonis, and
of Lower Saxony, Gerhard Schroeder, pledged to support plans to increase
river depth to allow passage of larger container ships. After the joint
cabinet meeting in Kiel, Simonis said people in the North knew that they are
economically dependent on the Hamburg port. Construction is scheduled to
start next fall.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-09-11>
<H1>
Weather report
</H1>
Today and tomorrow mostly foggy and cloudy, but no precipitation is
expected. Day temperatures will be around the freezing mark. Nighttime lows
will be between -2 and -10 C. The only regions to see some sun will be higher
mountain regions where temperatures can rise to between 3 and 6 C.

