<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-1>
<H1>
Hirsch For Clear Job Definition of Secret Service Manager
</H1>
Following the affair surrounding private investigator Maus,
the vice president of the Bundestag, Mr. Hirsch of the FDP,
demanded that the government issue a precise job description
for the coordinator of the secret service, Schmidtbauer. In
an interview with the newspaper "Volksstimme am Sonntag,"
Hirsch agreed that Schmidtbauer had achieved great success as
far as humanitarian work was concerned. However, Hirsch said,
Schmidtbauer was now increasingly assigned tasks that
conflicted with his duty as the supervisor of the secret
service. Hirsch added that no matter how competently the
chancellor set the guidelines, the minister in charge should
be the one solely responsible for foreign policy, and should
report solely to the parliament. If these basic conditions
were not met, the government would become erratic, said
Hirsch. He added that a parliamentary control commission will
review the case of private investigator Maus next week.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-2>
<H1>
Federal Government Plans to Back Maus
</H1>
The federal government plans to endorse German
private investigator Maus, who is currently being detained by
Colombian officials. In an interview, secret service
coordinator Schmidtbauer noted that nobody was planning to
abandon Maus and his wife now, who had aided the German
government in many previous incidents. The private
investigator had been arrested on November 17 in Columbia. He
had been carrying counterfeit passports. Several newspapers,
including the news magazine "FOCUS" report that Maus did not
only delivered ransoms German citizens who had been abducted
in Columbia, but had also been involved with the smuggling of
weapons and drugs.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-3>
<H1>
Government Called to Reverse Reductions in Sick Pay
</H1>
Employee representatives and the SPD have called the
federal government to withdraw the new law stipulating a
reduction in sick pay. The chair of the union for metal,
engineering and electronics, Zwickel, noted that by this
measure, the regional employer associations would be able to
prevent strikes. SPD parliamentary group leader Scharping
announced that a bill was currently being drafted, in case
the government did not decide by itself to withdraw the
controversial law.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-4>
<H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg's CDU Plans New Savings Measures
</H1>
The CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg has announced plans
for new savings measures. Baden-Wuerttemberg Parliamentary
Group Leader Oettinger noted that following the federal
compromise about the annual tax law, the state budget
suffered a deficit of up to 180 million Marks. If combined
with losses in tax revenue and personnel expenses not
covered, the deficit totaled to 650 million Marks, Oettinger
said in an interview with the newspaper "Stuttgarter
Nachrichten." He added that this difference should not be
addressed with an increase in the overall debt, but rather
with a second savings round. Karlsruhe University President
Wittich said that the budget cuts slated so far were already
causing irreparable damage in university budgets throughout
the state.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-5>
<H1>
States Unite Against Scientology
</H1>
Baden-Wuerttemberg and Bavaria plan to take steps
against the organization Scientology. In a joint session of
the two state cabinets on Tuesday, the two states plan to
start a federal initiative to aid the fight against the
organization. Bavarian Minister of the Interior Beckstein
explained the step by noting that Scientology exploited
people in a way that was bordering organized crime. Both
states promote the plan to allow the federal department for
the tutelage of the constitution to monitor the organization.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-6>
<H1>
Demonstrations Against University Budget Cuts
</H1>
Some 2000 students from all over Baden-
Wuerttemberg have demonstrated against cuts in university
budgets in Stuttgart. Specifically, the demonstrants
protested the introduction of tuition charges of 100 Marks
per semester for regular students and of 1,000 Marks per
semester for those students who had exceeded the allowable
number of semesters in university. A speaker for the students
said that the tuition charges endangered the basis of equal
opportunities in education.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-7>
<H1>
Physicians Propose to Bill Patients Directly
</H1>
Physicians who are members of health plans would
like to also be able to bill their patients directly in the
future. The chair of the federal association of physicians,
Schorr, outlined this proposal at a meeting of
representatives for his organization. The proposal would
allow physicians to choose whether to bill their patients or
the health insurance company. The patients would then have to
apply for a refund from the insurance company. Schorr
criticized the spending limits for medications and warned
that a wave of bankruptcies among physicians was imminent.
The physicians' organization fears that they will have to
exceed their budget by more than four billion Marks, in order
to serve their patients properly. The new laws stipulate that
this money be deducted from the physicians' salaries.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-8>
<H1>
15 Billion Marks Deficit for Health Insurance Industry
</H1>
According to an estimate by the association of employee
health insurance companies, there will be a budget deficit of
about 15 billion Marks in the coming year, as opposed to a
deficit of 9.5 billion for the current year. The chair of the
board of the association, Rebscher said in an interview with
the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag," that he expected there to be
a governmental emergency program stipulating spending limits
for all services of the health industry. Furthermore,
Rebscher noted that the responsibilities of other social
insurances, as for example social security, could not
continue to be transferred to the health insurances.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-9>
<H1>
Further Lufthansa Strikes Possible
</H1>
During the upcoming week, there will be yet another
possibility of strikes at the German Lufthansa. The chair of
the national union of employees (DAG), Issen, said in an
interview with the newspaper "Bild am Sonntag," that in light
of the inflexible stance taken by the Lufthansa management,
he did not expect the collective wage negotiations to come to
an agreement by the beginning of this coming week. In this
case, pilots and grounds personnel were planning strikes
during the second half of the week. In its negotiations with
the union for public service and transportation, the
Lufthansa had already reached an agreement, which had not
been accepted by the DAG, however.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-10>
<H1>
Russian Defector Shares Information on Russian Spies
</H1>
A defector from the ranks of the Russian secret
service has provided the German office protection from
foreign spies extensive information, the news magazine
"FOCUS" reports. For several months, the German Domestic
Intelligence Agency has been checking hundreds of hints
concerning Russian spies in German parties, trade
organizations, and safety offices.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-11>
<H1>
Suspected RAF Members to Turn Themselves In?
</H1>
Two suspected members of the terrorist organization RAF
appear to plan to turn themselves in to German officials, the
Hamburg news magazine "Der Spiegel" reports. The magazine
elaborates that Barbara Mayer and Sabine Callsen, whose names
are on the current wanted list of the federal criminal police
agency, plan to turn themselves in, soon. However, the two
are still waiting for the outcome in the case of RAF member
Seitler. Barbara Mayer has been on the federal criminal
police wanted list since 1984. She is suspected to have
participated in the attack on the prison construction in
Weiterstadt, Hesse, in March 1993. Like Barbara Mayer, also
Sabine Callsen is considered to be one of the core members of
the RAF. The federal criminal police suspects that she
participated in two bombing attacks in Hamburg. There are
also reports of new contacts to a third suspected RAF
terrorist, Andrea Martina Klump, currently living in Peru.
For personal reasons, she is unlikely to return. A warrant
for the arrest of Klump and Christoph Seitler had been issued
following the attempted murder of Alfred Herrhausen, the
chief executive officer of the "Deutsche Bank." Two weeks
ago, Seitler took advantage of the so-called "retirement
program" and turned himself in. The program allows those who
choose to, to leave behind their criminal past, provided that
they renounce terrorism. After many hours of questioning, the
38-year-old has now been released. He denies ever having been
a member of the RAF. The controversial retirement program is
now being continued, since the Mayer and Callsen are planning
to turn themselves in.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-12>
<H1>
Arson Attack on Foreigners' Home in Fuerstenwalde
</H1>
Arsonists have attacked an house inhabited by foreigners in
Fuerstenwalde, Brandenburg. Police report that unknown
suspects threw a Molotov cocktail at the building, which is
inhabited by Portuguese construction workers. The fire was
put out quickly, and no one was injured. During the past
week, there had been repeated attacks on foreigners in
Brandenburg. On Thursday, an African and a Vietnamese man had
been beaten by youths.

<DOC de-news-1996-12-07-13>
<H1>
Severe Traffic Accident Leaves three dead
</H1>
Three were killed and two injured in a major
accident at the Autobahn intersection in Ludwigshafen. Two
trucks, one van, and two cars were involved in the accident.

