<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-1>
<H1>
Ban on import of British beef remains effective for the time being
</H1>
In order to protect the consumer from the cattle disease BSE,
Germany still has safety requirements. For that reason, British beef may
not be sold in Germany. After meeting with her colleagues, minister of
health Fischer, says that it is too early to lift the ban on British
beef imports. Fischer and her colleagues decided on further talks on
lifting the ban on British beef imports with the new EU-commission. The
EU lifted the ban, imposed on the grounds of the BSE outbreak, on august
1st. One of the subjects touched upon was obligatory testing for BSE.
The Greens minister announced that a team under the jurisdiction of
North Rhine-Westphalia will examine the available tests once more for
reliability. Fischer calls upon consumers to ask after beef's country of
origin before buying it.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-2>
<H1>
Karlsruhe rejects motion against the 630-Mark bill
</H1>
The new system of 630-Mark jobs effective since april, will
remain in force for the time being.  The Federal Constitutional Court
rejected the motion by six cleaning contractors to impose a temporary
arrangement. According to the judge, a similar arrangement could
conceivably be more disadvantageous than maintaining the present
situation until a definite decision has been reached. Should the law
become permanent, the social services stand to lose amounts running into
the three-figure millions. This weighs heavier than the consequences for
the cleaners should the situation be reversed. The businesses feel their
existence is being threatened since the law does not provide for an
interim arrangement. At the end of April, the court already rejected a
similar motion by a number of newspaper publishers.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-3>
<H1>
Secretary of the Chancellor's Office supports tax plans Steuer
</H1>
The new state Secretary for the Chancellor's Office Buri,
supports the controversial tax plans of SPD party leader Struck. Buri
said on German radio that Struck's proposal, to increase only three tax
rates to the levels of 15, 25 and 35 percent, was fundamentally sound.
However, it can only be effectively applied on a long-term basis.The
problem being that gaps will form between the tax rates, which is not
particularly conducive to efficiency. Struck's proposal was heavily
criticized within the SPD. SPD secretary general Schreiner and financial
expert Poss, among others, expressed their doubts.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-4>
<H1>
Pressure for longer opening hours increases after trial run on Sunday
</H1>
After the rush on stores open last Sunday in Berlin, Halle
and Dessau, demands for further relaxation of opening hours in Germany
are becoming increasingly insistent. Both the minister of trade and
commerce in Lower Saxony Peter Fischer, the FDP party leaders, and the
economic representative pleaded for a complete abolition of opening
hours on the grounds that they are outdated. The trade unions HBV and
DAG, however, as well as the Evangelical and Catholic churches, lodged
strong protests. The council chairman of the Evangelical church in
Germany Kock said that opening the stores on Sundays will disrupt the
hitherto preserved rythm of work and rest in society.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-5>
<H1>
Only eleven months of civil service after July 2000
</H1>
From July 2000 onwards, civil service will be reduced from
thirteen months to eleven months. It will then last only one month
longer than military service. The minister for the family Bergmann
stated that the government has now met the political demands to align
the durations of civil service and military service. The number of
people performing civil services will be brought down. However, Bergmann
wants to make an exeption in the case of  the social services. Another
90.000 people performing civil services will be put to work there next
year as was the case this year. Altogether, the minister for the family
wants to save around 660 million DM in civil sevrices this coming year.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-6>
<H1>
IFO business forecast: upwards trend accelerates
</H1>
The business boom in Germany will regain its speed according to a
prognosis of the Munich based IFO institute. According to the latest IFO
business forecast the gross national product will increase from 2.5 to 3
percent in the second half of 1999. The economists write that the boom is
rooted in heavy industry and affects positively the company-related service
industry. Along with the upwards trend of the production in the whole
economy, the employment would also increase. This trend would continue next
year.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-7>
<H1>
Strikes can decrease Christmas pay
</H1>
The Federal Social Court has handed down a ruling today that under
certain circumstances employees must accept a reduction of their Christmas
pay after strikes. Thus, a reduction is permissible when the collective
agreement provides a proportional reduction of annual special payments for
times of suspended employment. In the view of the highest social court the
term "suspended employment" does not only comprise military service or
parental leave but also strikes.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-8>
<H1>
Continuing dryness causes wild fires
</H1>
The continuing dryness has caused forest and field fires in many
parts of Germany. A red alert has been issued for fire brigades and air
surveillance. Especially in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg, and
Saxony-Anhalt the threat of forest fires has increased dramatically.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-9>
<H1>
Contracting procedure for Schoenefeld airport must be repeated
</H1>
The contracting procedure for the construction of the Schoenefeld
airport at the outskirts of Berlin must be partly repeated. The Upper
Regional Court in Brandenburg ruled that the plaintiff, the defeated tender
holding company IVG has been repeatedly violated in its rights in the
airport privatization. Thus, the contracts with the group including
building enterprise HochTief are void. Other partners in the contract are
the State of Berlin, The State of Brandenburg, and the federal government.
The court criticized especially the personnel overlap between airport
company BBF and HochTief. BBF must now renegotiate with HochTief and IVG.
Berlin and Brandenburg announced the date for the opening of the airport in
2007 would not be changed in spite of the ruling. The estimated costs for
the first privately-only financed airport are about 6 billion DM.

<DOC de-news-1999-08-03-10>
<H1>
Stoiber rejects any responsibility for LWS losses
</H1>
Bavaria's State Premier Edmund Stoiber has rejected again any
personal responsibility for the million-mark losses of the government-owned
real estate company LWS. Stoiber said after a cabinet meeting that the
responsibility for the mismanagement rested with the LWS executives, their
supervisory board, and the stockholders' assembly. As a consequence from
the LWS affaire the Bavarian government will improve the control over
companies that are partly owned by the State of Bavaria. The number of
mandates and their terms shall be limited. In future, the state of
government-owned enterprises shall be reported to the Bavarian parliament.
The opposition accused the government of trying to whitewash its name. SPD
and Greens demanded an enquiry committee. They accused Stoiber of having
forced the LWS into risky deals with the East and being responsible for
losses of 367 million DM.

