<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-1>
<H1>
Fischer demands resignation of executive committee spokeswomen.
</H1>
The Greens' Federal Foreign Minister Fischer has demanded the resignation
of both executive committee spokeswomen Gunda Roestel and Antje Radke.
According to a report in the news magazine "Der Spigel", Mr. Fischer said
one of his reasons was that he was more committed to the party. It appears
that Mr. Fischer want to become more involved in Greens party politics.
One indicator is the fact that he definitely wants to be present on Monday
at the meeting of the Greens leadership to discuss the results of the
Saxony election and has postponed his flight to the UN in New York.

<P>
Yet another, even clearer indicator is what is reported by the Spiegel.
According to the magazine, Mr. Fischer wants to offer his availability to
the party in the coming years to a greater extent than previously for
election campaigns and attracting voters. In addition to demanding the
resignations, Mr. Fischer wants there to be a special congress day
dedicated to repealing the separation of office and mandates for the
Greens. He also would like a general secretary which can lead a
substantial, personal and structural reform of the Greens party and create
an election campaign center from the party apparatus, modeling it after
their SPD coalition partner.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-2>
<H1>
Environmental Minister Trittin notes progress in nuclear phase-out
</H1>
The attempts to achieve an nuclear energy phase-out in the near future
have gained new momentum, Federal Environmental Minister Trittin feels.
Mr. Trittin and Federal Foreign Minister Fischer met with the heads of
four energy providers yesterday. It was said that another meeting has been
scheduled and progress was made.  Both sides were satisfied with the
progress of the talks. They spoke of a very constructive atmosphere.
According to Mr. Trittin, " We covered all of the disputed issues
including final storage, reconstruction, limit of terms. There were many
constructive ideas in many areas. This is the reason why we will
continue."

<P>
The much disputed issue of nuclear waste transport was still on the table.
Both the government and industry have been in negotiations about when the
glowing waste may be transported again.  According to a report from the
"Suddeutsche Zeitung", six nuclear plants face a shut down in the next few
months if the nuclear waste cannot be transported out. The newspaper
referred to a status report which Mr. Trittin confidentially gave to the
chancellor's office this week. Nuclear waste transportation will only
continue, according to the report, when it has been established that the
prescribed thresholds have been maintained.

<P>
The plant operators have nonethessless failed to provide the necessary
documentation in time, the report says. However, Mr. Trittin sees some
alternatives. "There is a problem which we are having with a number of
facilities if they continue to be operated. The operators would then have
a right to legal action. We must therefore find a solution. It does not
have to lie in transport but in technical solutions in one case or
another. We will solve this problem," he stressed. Mr. Trittin has stated
that there will be a solution by the fall.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-3>
<H1>
EU commission convenes for first working session
</H1>
The new EU commission has convened for its first working session. Under
the direction of EU Commission President Prodi, the commissioners are
discussing rules of conduct because the previous regulation team of Mr.
Santer from Luxemburg was forced to resign due to accusations of
corruption and mismanagement. The commissars, confirmed three days ago,
and their president Romano want to make a gesture which could restore the
lost trust of many citizens in the authority in Brussels. The conduct
code, which should prevent conflicts of interest, forbids the
commissioners from sharing insider information with companies after
leading office. If a commissioner takes on a paid position within a year
of leaving office, an ethics committee is established. These measure
should prevent a repeat of the Martin Bangemann case. Mr. Bangemann wanted
to make a seamless transition into private industry in the beginning of
July. The commissioners had recently provided written information on
stocks and real estate via the parliament prior to their inquiry. The code
also prohibits the commissioners from holding a second position for
compensation as well as the employment of family members in one area of
responsibility. The EU managers also promised their president that they
would leave office if he felt that were necessary.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-4>
<H1>
More disputes on direction of SPD
</H1>
The Social Democrats are continuing their dispute of the future direction
of the party. This is despite the discussions conducted this week by both
wings of the party with Chancellor Schroeder. The leftist members of the
SPD asked to take the floor today and thereby indirectly threatened that
some of the members of the Bundestag could reject the savings package. The
"Frankfurt circle" has stayed true to form, including all SPD members of
parliament from Andrea Nales to Detlef von Leicher. The leftist wing of
the party does not want to approve the savings package as it is now.
Despite talks between the right and left wings with the chancellor, von
Leicher does not yet believe that final approval in the Bundestag has been
ensured. "I cannot be certain whether it will work out or not. Within the
faction, there is a great desire to make changes," he added. The left is
specifically demanding the rejection of a savings quota in effect for all
ministries. The feel that the minister of labor has too little maneuvering
room for cuts in the years to come. The Frankfurt circle insists upon
making the rich pay more. If the Bundesrat is not interested in a property
tax, it should come up with a limited capital levy. 210 billion marks
would then come into the empty state coffers.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-5>
<H1>
New NATO unit comes into being
</H1>
60 years after the beginning of World War II, Poles, Danes and Germans are
forming a common military unit.  The unit is supposed to take part in NATO
peace-keeping and rescue missions.  It includes 3 tank divisions and 140
officers.  The new corps came into being with an official ceremony in
Stettin.  After an ecumenical service and a military parade through the
town, the Polish president presented the commanding general with the corps
banner, featuring its new coat of arms: Three blue waves and three swords,
symbolizing the three states.  German Defense Minister Rudolph Scharping
made clear in his speech that the new corps is not aimed at anyone in
particular.  He said it was rather an expression of European integration
than a means of exclusion.  He said a free and complete Europe cannot stop
at the eastern border.  The new corps grew out of long-standing
cooperation between the German and the Dutch.  It is will take part in the
defense of the alliance, but also in crisis management and peace-keeping
actions.  The Polish president said the stationing of this multinational
corp on Polish soil has a special meaning, because it shows that Poland
not only profits from its NATO membership, but actively contributes.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-6>
<H1>
The upcoming Saxony state elections
</H1>
Tomorrow morning citizens in Saxony will go to the ballot boxes, and if
the polls aren't lying, they will add one more to the SPD's recent string
of election defeats.  Kurt Biedenkopf's CDU have been in power in Dresden
for 9 years, and by all appearances they don't have to fear for their
absolute majority.  Polls shows that if there was a head to head choice
between Biedenkopf and the SPD's leading candidate, Karl-Heinz Kunkel,
Biedenkopf would get 80% of the vote.  He gets high marks in all areas.
He's even ahead among members of the SPD.  And there is little doubt that
the CDU will win in Saxony as a whole as well.  It might even possible for
them to get a two-thirds majority.  The SPD is looking at bad situation
getting worse. Last election they won 16% in Saxony.  This time they might
get as little as 10%.  It seems certain the PDS will move into second
place.  Having an absolute majority, the CDU will continue to rule by
itself.  The only open question is whether the extreme right NPD will get
into the state parliament.  In any case, according to the latest polls,
the NPD has a better chance of making it than the Greens or the FDP.
>From their votes, it seems that a clear majority of Saxons see themselves
coming off as winners from unification.  The verdict was more mixed
Brandenburg and Thuringia.

<DOC de-news-1999-09-18-7>
<H1>
Roll out the barrels, it's Oktoberfest 1999!
</H1>
This is the way an Oktoberfest should start.  Sunshine over Munich, every
seat occupied in the beer tents, and at noon precisely, the Mayor
performsing what some consider his most important task: tapping the first
keg of Weiss beer for Oktoberfest.  It has to be done with three strokes
of a mallet to be done right, and Christian Ude was up to the task.
Immediately afterwards he uttered the traditional "Ozapft is!" -- "It's
tapped!" and wished everyone a peaceful Oktoberfest. [Last year there were
some drunken disturbances.] Minister President Stoiber received the first
mugful.  Expectations are high for the 166th opening of the biggest public
festival in the world.  First the first time since 1985, visitors may
exceed the 7 million mark.  Hotel rooms in Munich and seats in the beer
halls are entirely booked.

<P>
250 Exhibitors, 400 suppliers and 64 food-service firms will cater to
visitors needs on Munich's St. Theresa Park for the 16 day festival.
Around 5.5 million liters of beer will flow through the taps and into the
beer steins, weather permitting.  People are expected to down a million
traditional sausages, and the candy, souvenir and fishcake sellers all
expect a good year's business, along with the taxi drivers.  The only
thing that will be missing this year is novelty.  Next to the old standby
rides and attractions, there are only three new ones: a Bavarian car race;
the enchanted castle, a ride for kids; and the witches dance, a ride for
young and old consisting of 24 Gondolas swirling 15 feet in the air around
a flaming column 35 feet high.  A liter glass of beer this year will costs
between DM10.70 and DM11.80.

