<DOC de-news-1999-06-16-1>
<H1>
Kosovo refugees stream home despite cautioning
</H1>
Despite contrary warnings from NATO, thousands of Kosovar refugees in
Albania and Macedonia continue to flood homeward. Representatives of the
UN High Commission on Refugees and of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe spoke of chaos on the Kosovo border. At times, the
line-ups of vehicles at the border crossings were kilometres long. At the
same time, Serbian civilians are fleeing the province – more than 30,000
so far, according to Red Cross estimates. The commander of the NATO peace
force, British General Michael Jackson, appealed today to the Serbian
minority not to flee as refugees, saying that KFOR would protect both
groups.
Meanwhile, in Helsinki, American Defence Minister William Cohen and his
Russian counterpart Igor Sergeyev continue to discuss the roll of Russian
forces within KFOR. The Interfax news agency is reporting that Russian
government sources say that Moscow will not waver from its demand for a
Russian sector in Kosovo, although it is willing to compromise on the
details, as long as Russian interests are observed. Before today's
meeting, Cohen again rejected the idea of a Russian sector, saying there
could only be a single zone of responsibility; he did not elaborate.
According to Deutschlandfunk radio information, two Russian battalions,
about 1000 men, are to be deployed, along with German Army units, in the
Prizren area. Both Russian units would be fit into the KFOR command
structure, following policies developed in Bosnia. They would not comprise
a formal part of the structure, but would in practice be under the German
commander. in addition, a Russian liaison officer, attached to the KFOR
command in Pristina, would apparently ensure communication among Moscow,
NATO, and the German contingent.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-16-2>
<H1>
Schroeder declares support for globalization
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, issuing a government policy
declaration in the Bundestag, two days before the Global Economic Summit
in Cologne, reaffirmed his commitment to continuing aid to Russia and to
easing the debt burden on the Third World. He emphasized, however, that
resources did not currently allow Germany to completely release developing
countries from their debts. Schroeder said that the goals of globalization
included economic competitiveness, social justice, and democratic rule of
law. He also described the coming meeting of the leading industrial
nations and Russia as the beginning of a new economic upswing. Schroeder
also said that the German federal government would make its contribution
to growth and employment through consolidating its budget.
In the subsequent debate session, the Opposition criticized the policies
of the SPD-Green coalition. CDU/CSU caucus leader Wolfgang Schaeuble
accused the cabinet of being responsible for the weakness of the euro,
through failed economic policies. The deputy leader of the FDP, Rainer
Bruederle, said that there was a large gap between government claims and
reality. The PDS accused Schroeder of falling back on the remedies of the
conservatives for bringing change to German society.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-16-3>
<H1>
Riester apparently to bring in private old-age security
</H1>
Federal Labour Minister Walter Riester plans to introduce a minimal
federal old-age pension and obligatory supplementary private pension
plans, according to government sources. At the same time, the existing
policy of adjusting pension rates to the latest wage agreements in a
retiree's industry will apparently be phased out over the next two years.
Instead, pensions will be indexed to inflation, at around one percent
annually. These reports have not been officially confirmed . However,
Riester did say on ARD television that pensioners can expect cuts. He also
announced that pension contributions would be further lowered, and
stabilized at under 19 percent.
The Greens reject the idea of obligatory private old-age security. The
finance spokesman, for the Green party caucus, Klaus Mueller, said it
would add to the contribution burden and put low-income earners at a
disadvantage. The coalition will decide on the basics of pension reforms
together with the savings and tax reform package, on June 30.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-16-4>
<H1>
Naumann's proposal for Holocaust memorial rejected
</H1>
The Bundestag's culture committee has decided against State Minister
Naumann's preferred plan for a Holocaust memorial in Berlin. The
committee's chairman, Elke Leonhard, made the announcement in Bonn.
Naumann had wanted the memorial to be supplemented by an information and
documentation centre; the committee prefers that the memorial exclusively
commemorate the murdered Jews. A majority on the committee agreed with a
recommendation to present parliament with two choices for the memorial.
The first would be a second proposal by the architect originally
commissioned, Eisenmann. The other was suggested by a theologian named
Schroeder, and consists of the phrase "Thou shalt not kill" repeated in
many languages.

<DOC de-news-1999-06-16-5>
<H1>
28th German Protestant Church Congress opened
</H1>
The 28th German Protestant Church Congress opened today with a central
mass on the Schlossplatz square in Stuttgart. Over 100,000 participants
are expected at the event, the motto of which is "You are the salt of the
earth". The chairman of the Council of the Protestant Church in Germany,
Manfred Kock, called on the Protestant community to ask itself the
questions of life and of the future. He also warned against growing
insulated and self-satisfied. The congress will end on Sunday, with a
special mass to be held in the Gottlieb Daimler Stadium.

