<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-1>
<H1>
EU summit in Luxembourg
</H1>
Final negotiations between state and government leaders were delayed on
Saturday afternoon due to differences regarding Cyprus. Diplomats have
reported that the composition of the Cyprus delegation was disputed. It is
this delegation with whom membership talks are to be initiated next spring.
France has requested that the delegation also include representatives of the
Turkish republic of North Cyprus. Greece disagrees with the proposal. State
and government leaders joined their colleagues from the ten central and
eastern European applicant states and Cyprus to discuss means of EU
enlargement.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-2>
<H1>
Germany and Italy: greater cooperation in armament projects
</H1>
The Defense Ministers of Germany and Italy have agreed to cooperate more
closely in their armament missions. Minister Ruehe and his Italian
counterpart Andreata also called for Europeans to become more involved in the
situation in Bosnia. After the meeting of the two ministers in Bad
Reichenhall, a Defense Ministry spokesman commented that both leaders urged
the EU to assume greater responsibility in the SFOR follow-up mission.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-3>
<H1>
Lafontaine wants to re-introduce wealth tax
</H1>
SPD chairman Oskar Lafontaine wants to re-introduce the wealth tax after
there is a change in leadership in Bonn. He wishes to ensure that the States
use the tax revenues exclusively for education. In a speech to delegates of
the Thuringian Party Convention in Jena, Mr. Lafontaine opined that the
repeal of the wealth tax was one of the biggest mistakes that the Federal
Government has made in view of the dramatic changes that have occurred in
Germany. He also accused the government coalition of ruining the tax law by
always finding tax write-offs for the rich.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-4>
<H1>
US places embargo on sheep and cattle imported from Europe
</H1>
The US has placed an import embargo on sheep and cattle from Europe. The US
Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C. gave a statement on Friday
evening in which it explained that the embargo would reduce the risks of a
spread of BSE ("mad cow" disease). Assistant Agriculture Secretary Michael
Dunn stated that the decision was made to protect human and animal health.
He added that the United States must protect the security of its food
products. Cattle, sheep and other animals are affected by the import embargo.
The US has placed restrictions on 21 European nations, including Germany. The
embargo would be lifted when the countries in question could demonstrate that
they employ sufficient surveillance methods of food products. The Department
of Agriculture's decision is apparently a retaliatory measure for EU trade
policy; after the beginning of next year, the European Union will prohibit
the import of products which are produced with beef tallow or gelatin.
American companies in the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries, which make
14 billion dollars in annual sales through product exports to Europe, will be
affected the most by the EU decision.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-5>
<H1>
Suessmuth: Bundeswehr right-wing radical incidents must be probed.
</H1>
Bundestag President Rita Suessmuth has demanded a thorough investigation of
right-wing radical incidents in the Bundeswehr (German Armed Forces.)  The
Cologne newspaper "Express" stressed that a thorough analysis of the
background for these incidents has become more important than adopting
disciplinary measures in the armed forces. Ms. Suessmuth continued that as a
result of the mandatory military service, the Army is a reflection of what is
going on in other groups of German society. It would be hypocritical to
pretend that the Army has a problem with right-wing radical activities
without the society having it too. The news magazine "Focus" has reported a
case in which according to an American and a German officer, German UN
soldiers had yelled "Sieg Heil" and "Heil Hitler" in their quarters during a
mission to Trogje, Croatia.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-6>
<H1>
Attacks on a refugee residence
</H1>
The refugee residence Ladebo in Greifswald was attacked twice last night by
juveniles. The police were able to capture four of the assailants, who were
armed with baseball bats, and noted down the suspects' personal information.
In Eberswald in Brandenburg, a warrant of arrest was issued for five youths
that were apprehended. They are accused of seriously injuring a Turk and a
German.

<DOC de-news-1997-12-13-7>
<H1>
Informant provides information about tax evaders
</H1>
An informant from Lorraine has provided the German authorities
with information about alleged tax evaders. The newspaper "Saarbruecker
Zeitung" reports about a list with approximately 270 bank account numbers;
Germans who owned the accounts had deposited a total 150 Million marks in
Luxembourg. These records are likely to help investigators to uncover tax
fraud amounting to millions of marks. A spokesman for the Saarland Ministry
of Finance has confirmed the newspaper's report. The informant has requested
a fee of 550,000 marks for providing copies of account statements with bank
customers' names, addresses and account balances. It has not been established
whether tax officials will make a deal with the informant.

