<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-1>
<H1>
Kinkel reminds Teheran of security guarantees for Germans in Iran
</H1>
Federal Foreign Minister Kinkel reminded the Iranian government of their
assurances of safety for resident Germans. He simultaneously called on
the leaders in Teheran to engage the radical Islamic organization
Hezbollah in keeping demonstrations under control. Hezbollah's threats of
suicide attacks are being taken seriously, Kinkel said in Bonn. He
emphasized however that fears of attacks are ungrounded, because these
units act only on the order of the Iranian government. Australia and New
Zealand sent their ambassadors, recalled after the Mykonos trial, back to
Teheran.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-2>
<H1>
Politicians delineate positions in the debate over tax reform
</H1>
Social Democrats and members of the ruling coalition have clashed again
over their respective positions on tax reform. The leader of the FDP
faction, Solms, signaled to the SPD in the Cologne paper "Express" that
the magnitude of the tax reductions would be opposed. His party supports
a significant net reduction in tax liabilities, with the goal of more
growth and employment despite the lack of wiggle room. Agreement with the
SPD was unlikely on each single issue such as the ancillary salary costs,
Solms stressed. 
<P>
SPD leader Lafontaine said in an interview in the
"Leipziger Volkszeitung" that the tax reform plans of the government were
endangering the rebuilding of the East. The reduction of income in each
state could run into billions, and will not be easily to replace. Soon
there must be widespread cuts and shortages.

<P>
The Bavarian Premier Stoiber accused Lafontaine of trying to hinder the
construction of the requisite consensus in the Bundestag with his
politics of the blockade. In the news magazine "FOCUS" the CDU politician
pleaded to raise the VAT rather than the tax on mineral oil, in order to
reduce social insurance costs and so to improve the competitive
situation.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-3>
<H1>
DAG criticizes planned pension reform
</H1>
The opposition in Bonn is receiving support of its criticism of the
planned pension reform from organized labor. The national union of
employees (DAG) accused the coalition of deceiving the public with
unrealistic statistics. The actual payments of the new pension would
constitute a significant reduction, more significant than heretofore
acknowledged.

<P>
The DAG reports that pensions would sink to 50 percent of the net income,
rather than the 64 percent that the coalition has reported in its
representations of the reform plans. Lutz Freitag today characterized the
plans that have already been agreed to and laid out as socially and
politically fatal in a newspaper interview, unacceptable to pensioners
and unworthy of the term required insurance. Even today, the statistical
pension level of 70 percent only 60 percent in reality. The calculated
average pension is given as 2080 DM, but the average payout lies in
reality about 300 DM below that. Freitag is also alternating head of the
federal insurance authority for employees, and sees the result of the Bonn
pension plans to be only a sort of safety net protection, though in the
future full contributions will be required. The future old age benefits
will become only 10 percent more than social security payments. The
coalition has made a consensus with the SPD, unions and employers as good
as impossible with their proposal. Were the reductions in pension levels
to be fully carried out until 2015, as the FPD requires, it would be an
abrogation of the generational contract in the view of Freitag.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-4>
<H1>
Rister defends demands for a 32 hour week
</H1>
The acting head of the union for metal, engineering and electronics,
Rister, defended the union demand for a 32 hour work week. This morning
in an interview on "Deutschlandradio Berlin" he said that more people
would be able to work with shorter work hours. A 32 hour week cannot be
the only weapon against unemployment, still it could make a contribution.
Rister stressed that there was no essential lack of work in Germany, and
that there was enough to do in the social and environmental arenas.. What
is lacking is work that has an impact on the economic power of workers.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-5>
<H1>
20 billion dollar deficit in the federal budget
</H1>
CDU Finance expert Rauen forecasts a 20 billion dollar deficit in the
federal budget this year. The acting chair of the Bundestag special
council on finance told the Cologne "Express" that the cause of the
deficit was the reductions in income from taxes. In addition the number
of unemployed was higher than originally forecast. Rauen demanded further
reductions in social outlays. Otherwise there will be no avoiding tax
increases to cover the budgetary deficit. In the opinion of the SPD
budget expert Poss the shortage in the budget to be still higher. In Bonn
Poss said that huge tax decreases must be reckoned with in the first
quarter of 1997.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-6>
<H1>
Federal government wants no changes in unification agreement
</H1>
The Federal government will accept no corrections to the unification
agreement according to the CDU General Secretary Hintze. The
dispossessions that occurred between 1945 and 1949 in East Germany under
the guise of land reform will not be retracted, Hintze said in the paper
"Freie Presse". It would be impossible to rectify each act of evil
perpetrated during the dictatorship. Justice Minister Schmidt-Jortzig
called on the CDU General Secretary to represent the views of the
government in the future. The FDP politician has called the land reform
into question several times.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-7>
<H1>
Nolte to vote for SPD proposal on marital rape bill
</H1>
The federal minister for family affairs, Ms. Nolte of the CDU, has
decided to vote for the version of the bill regarding marital rape
drafted by SPD and the Greens. This version of the bill does not contain
the controversial contradiction clause. In an interview with the
newspaper "Saechsische Zeitung," Ms. Nolte said that the bill drafted by
the opposition parties would initiate a marked improvement for the
protection of women in the criminal legislature. The bill drafted by the
coalition does contain the contradiction clause, which enables a woman
to halt a criminal investigation against her husband after she has
accused him of raping her. SPD and the Greens fear that the clause might
put undue strain on women, who might be pressured into withdrawing their
charge. During the vote scheduled for next Thursday in the Bundestag, the
leaderships of CDU/CSU and FDP plan to lift the compulsory unanimity
among votes customary within each parliamentary group.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-8>
<H1>
Bavaria to discontinue payments to certain ARD broadcasting stations
</H1>
Bavaria plans to discontinue payments to the ARD broadcasting stations
"Radio Bremen" and "Saarlaendischer Rundfunk," beginning in the year
2001. In an interview with the newspaper "Welt am Sonntag," Prime Minster
Stoiber of the CDU noted that the fusion of the stations "Suedwestfunk"
and "Sueddeutscher Rundfunk" should serve to the states of Bremen and
Saarland as an example of the restructuring in broadcasting. Both states
needed to give up their media politics of isolation, said Stoiber. The
two broadcasting stations in question receive subsidies of 81 and 95
million Marks annually from the other stations within the ARD compound.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-9>
<H1>
State party conference of the SPD in Bavaria
</H1>
The social democrats of Bavaria met for their state party conference
today in Memmingen. The party hoped to set its course for the election
year 1998. The discussion focused on employment, education, and social
justice. Unified and politically determined is the party's motto for the
election year, in the words of General Secretary Wolfgang Hoderlein. Mr.
Hoderlein will be re-elected into office during this party conference.
His re-election is considered a formality, as is the re-election of state
party chair Renate Schmidt. Since 1991, she has run three times, and as
in previous elections, she achieved an overwhelming majority today. She
received 97.4 per cent of the votes cast, an even better result than in
her re-election two years ago with 91.7 per cent. No criticism of her
work has been voiced within her party. Her former opponent and party vice
chair Albert Schmidt was re-elected only as county chair. Ludwig Stegler,
the parliamentary state group chair, superseded Mr. Schmidt as vice party
chair. Ms. Schmidt had also requested popular Munich Mayor Christian
Uhde. Mr. Uhde however, only aspires a seat on the party board.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-10>
<H1>
Former president of the association of displaced persons dead
</H1>
The president of many years of the association of displaced
persons, Mr. Czaja, is dead. His family announced that Czaja died
yesterday at age 82. The native Upper Silesian was the president of the
association from 1970 until 1994. Between 1953 and 1990, he was a member
of the Bundestag, where he represented the electoral district Stuttgart
North . He was a strong advocate of the rights of Germans living on
Polish territory.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-11>
<H1>
Thirtieth anniversary of Konrad Adenauer's death
</H1>
Bad Honnef. Chancellor Kohl has participated in a commemorative event
honoring Konrad Adenauer, whom the chancellor described as a brave
visionary for Germany and Europe. During the celebration marking the
thirtieth anniversary of Adenauer's death, Kohl said that Adenauer had
helped lay the foundation for German democracy. Kohl further noted
Adenauer's achievements in the struggle to establish the social market
economy.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-12>
<H1>
SPD in Baden-Wuerttemberg deliberates party board election procedure
</H1>
The local party chairs of the SPD in Baden-Wuerttemberg have
discussed the procedure for election of the future state party chair
today. Many representatives called for a survey among all members, which
is not outlined in the party statutes. The election for SPD state chair
will be held in Sindelfingen at the end of June. SPD parliamentary
representative Mr. Antretter has announced that he will run against
current state chair Mr. Maurer.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-13>
<H1>
Greens in North Rhine-Westphalia reflect on coalition achievements
</H1>
The state minister of building and construction, Mr. Vesper, has
reflected positively on the achievements of the red-green governing
coalition in North Rhine-Westphalia to date. In an interview with the
broadcasting station "Deutschlandfunk," Vesper said that he had presented
a paper summarizing his review to the state parliamentary fraction, for
use at the party conference in Borken. Vesper noted that the Greens had
successfully represented their positions on energy and environmental
politics, as well as in judicial and domestic politics. He added that
also the coal and steel industry crises had shown that the state
government in Duesseldorf was up to the challenge. Asked about the
controversial coal mining project "Gertsweiler II," Vesper stressed his
party's opposition to the project.

<DOC de-news-1997-04-19-14>
<H1>
Federal Garden and Landscape Exhibition opens in Gelsenkirchen
</H1>
President Herzog has officially commenced this year's exhibition for
gardening and landscaping at the former mining grounds in Gelsenkirchen.
More than one million visitors are expected to visit the exhibition until
October 5, its closing date. Cultural and entertainment events featuring
about ten thousand artists from 30 countries are scheduled to take place
during the exhibition.

