<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-1>
<H1>
Federal government: Military action in Kosovo only under UN mandate
</H1>
The federal government is interested in military action in the Yugoslavian
province of Kosovo only if the UN Security Council issues a mandate to
that effect. Government spokesman Hauser said today in Bonn that the
federal cabinet shares the legal assessment expressed by the German
Foreign Office; the government welcomes the British initiative to strive
for a UN mandate. Hauser added that the international community must not
relax its pressure on Belgrade. The American government announced that its
fighter aircraft and ships would remain on stand-by, as NATO could yet
reach a swift decision to intervene. The American envoy to the Balkans,
Gelbhardt, warned Yugoslavia against crossing the border into Albania in
their pursuit of Kosovo separatists. Representatives of various parties of
the European Parliament in Strasbourg criticized the results of
negotiations between Yugoslavian President Milosevic and Russian President
Yeltsin, calling the entire proceedings a sham.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-2>
<H1>
Schroeder offers Poland unconditional support if elected
</H1>
SPD chancellery candidate Schroeder wants to help Poland in its bid for
membership in the EU and NATO if his party wins the federal election this
fall. The Social Democrats, in contrast to the Associations for Displaced
Germans (Vertriebenenverbaende - in this case from what is now Polish
territory, following World War II), would not place advance conditions on
membership for Poland, as Schroeder said during a one-day visit in Warsaw.
While there, Schroeder also met with the leader of the Polish Social
Democratic Party, Miller. Schroeder assured Miller that there would be no
change in the direction of Germany's foreign, European, and security
policies if the SPD came to power in the fall.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-3>
<H1>
45th anniversary of Popular Uprising in East Germany
</H1>
On this, the 45th anniversary of the failed Popular Uprising in East
Germany, members of the Bundestag warned against playing down the crimes
of the old socialist dictatorship. In Bonn, Bundestag President Suessmuth
emphasized that the Popular Uprising on June 17, 1953 was an early visible
signal that the people of East Germany were not just going to accept being
oppressed by the state. She added that the significance of June 17 must
not be allowed to simply fade from public consciousness.
Politicians from the CDU/CSU, as well as the SPD and the Greens, accused
the successor to the old SED socialist party, the PDS (the Party of
Democratic Socialism) of lacking a proper understanding of democracy. PDS
leader, Bisky, apologized in the name of his party for their misdeeds of
their predecessors.
Presenting the final report of the commission investigating how best to
deal with the consequences of the SED dictatorship, commission chairman
Eppelmann (CDU) emphasized the cooperation between the various parties on
the commission in accomplishing the work.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-4>
<H1>
Stolpe rejects calls for his resignation
</H1>
Premier Stolpe of Brandenburg has refused to step down. This in reaction
to demands for his resignation by members of the CDU/CSU following a
ruling by the Federal High Court. The judges in Karlsruhe rules yesterday
that Stolpe may be designated a collaborator with the former East German
secret police, the Stasi. According to Stolpe's lawyer, the Premier will
likely challenge the ruling before the Federal Constitutional Court. The
basis for the challenge will be that Stolpe never received the opportunity
to refute the accusations against him.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-5>
<H1>
Clement announces unpopular decisions
</H1>
Premier Clement of North Rhine-Westphalia has announced the implementation
of unpopular measures within the framework of a large programme of
reforms. In his inaugural speech in the Landtag in Duesseldorf, the SPD
politician said that the speed of modernization must be further increased.
He added, however, that no breaks in the state's social structure would
occur.
The new red-green state government had just been sworn in. The new,
reduced cabinet consists of six Social Democrats and two members of the
Green Party.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-6>
<H1>
Retail unions expand protests in North Rhine-Westphalia
</H1>
The unions have again expanded their strikes in the contract dispute in
the North Rhine-Westphalia retail sector. Approximately 900 employees laid
down their work in retail stores and warehouses today.
The HBV and DAG unions had last week declared the contract negotiations in
the Rhine/Ruhr district a failure and begun labour action.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-7>
<H1>
Ford works resume production after three-day interruption
</H1>
Ford has reached an agreement with the Kiekert manufacturing company,
allowing production to resume at the Ford factory in Cologne after an
interruption of almost three days. The assembly lines - still since
Monday, after Kiekert last week suspended deliveries to the factory,
citing technical difficulties - are reported to be running at the present
time. Ford suspects that the door-lock manufacturer was trying to obtain
more favourable conditions for future contracts. The loss caused by the
production stop is estimated at about 100 million DM.

<DOC de-news-1998-06-17-8>
<H1>
Amnesty International presents 1997 report
</H1>
Amnesty International has accused governments around the world of lacking
will in protecting human rights. In presenting the organization's 1997
report, secretary-general for the German section of A.I. in Bonn, Deile,
said that world governments paid far more attention to economic, military,
and geopolitical interests. He said that, in contrast, human rights merely
provided cheap material for Sunday speeches and lip service. The report
denounces violations against human rights in 141 countries, and indicates
that people were tortured or abused in 2 out of 3 countries in the world
last year.

