<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-1>
<H1>
First German victory at the Tour de France
</H1>
Jan Ullrich of the German Telekom team is the first professional German
cyclist to win the Tour de France. Ullrich, who was born in the East-German
town of Rostock, has finished the 22-stage, 3,942 km tour on the Champs
Elysees in Paris. By the end of the race he was 9.09 minutes ahead of
Richard Virenque of France who came second. Ullrich was holder of the
yellow jersey from the 10th stage. Italian Nicola Minali won the last stage
in Paris with German Erik Zabel from Unna coming second. Zabel took the
green jersey for best sprinter. The German Telekom team was placed first in
the team section of the 84th Tour de France.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-2>
<H1>
Quick and unbureaucratic help announced for flood victims
</H1>
The Federal Department of Finance plans unbureaucratic and speedy aid for
residents living in the flood areas of Oder and Neisse. The Ministry said
in Bonn today that a 20 million mark package has already been approved by
the cabinet to help those who have been forced to abandon their homes or
relocate their cattle. In addition, those who participated in the communal
assistance programs and consequently suffered a loss of earnings will be
able to benefit too. German Interior Minister Manfred Kanther held a
meeting with his Polish counterpart, Leszek Miller, in the Polish town of
Slubice across the river from Frankfurt an der Oder. Large areas of Poland
have also been flooded by the River Oder. The area of Breslau in
particular, has been badly affected by the last wave of floods on Saturday
evening, although no further damage had been reported yesterday [Sunday].

<P>
The situation in the areas east of Brandenburg is once again highly
critical. The water level of the Oder reached a new peak in Frankfurt on
Sunday morning. According to the crisis management team of the Department
of the Interior in Potsdam, the water level rose by more than half a meter
to 6.52 meters within twelve hours. Several hundred helpers are trying to
shore up the dikes in Frankfurt. Officials think the rising water levels is
being caused by a breach in the dike in the area of Brisko-Finkenherd,
resulting in the water flowing more rapidly from the lowlands of Ziltendorf
back to the Oder than previously assumed. Because of this new development,
the situation for the area of Oderbruch located further north is becoming
more critical. A part of the newly erected dike near Hohenwutzen sagged
last night, however, the damage could be stabilized with sandbags.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-3>
<H1>
Unions and commerce push for agreement in tax reform
</H1>
Representatives of the unions and commerce have urged the negotiating
committee of the Bundestag and Bundesrat to reach agreement in the planned
tax reform.  A member of the board the German Federation of Trade Unions
(DGB), Mr. Geuenich, urged government and opposition parties to reach
agreement in the coming negotiations on a decrease in social security
contributions by the end of 1997. The president of the Federation of German
Industry, Mr. Henkel, has called for a bill on tax cuts for both businesses
and employees. Mr. Henkel said to the tabloid "Bild am Sonntag" that the
negotiating committee will have their last chance to do this on the
following Wednesday. If they didn't make use of this opportunity, nothing
would be able to be changed until the year 2000.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-4>
<H1>
Search for victims in Duesseldorf called off
</H1>
 The search for more victims in the collapsed apartment house
in downtown Duesseldorf was called off on Saturday night. According to a
spokesman for the fire department, the rescue work in the mountain of
debris has officially been ended. Two survivors and six dead were found in
the remains of the house. Four people were injured during the rescue work.
The four-story building in the Duesseldorf district of Flingern collapsed
on Thursday night due to a gas explosion which was deliberate caused,
according to the public prosecutor's office. The seal of a gas pipe in the
basement of the house had been unscrewed.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-5>
<H1>
Seehofer does not want to further burden medically insured
</H1>
 Federal Health Minister, Horst Seehofer, does not want to further
burden those insured under statutory health insurance. For example, he
wants to continue statutory insurance cover for spouses and family members,
according to a radio interview. The CSU politician did say, however, that
the public had to abandon the erroneous belief that the government was
omnipotent and take more responsibility for their own affairs.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-6>
<H1>
10 people suffer from smoke poisoning in apartment fire
</H1>
Ten people were affected by smoke poisoning in an apartment
fire, seven of which, according to the police, had to be treated in the
hospital. The fire broke out around three o'clock in the morning in the
first floor apartment.  The police assume that embers from an ashtray
started a fire in a waste basket.

<DOC de-news-1997-07-27-7>
<H1>
German Grand Prix in Hockenheim
</H1>
Michael Schumacher finished second behind the Austrian driver Berger in the
German Grand Prix. Finish driver Mika Haekinnen finished third.
Heinz-Harald Frentzen retired early after a collision with Schumacher's
teammate Eddi Irvine.

