<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-1>
<H1>
Model for income tax rate agreed upon
</H1>
The governing federal coalition has come to an agreement on the
future rates structure for income tax, Finance Minister Waigel announced
today. Above a proportional zone for low incomes, there will be a
linear-progressive rate structure, Waigel said following a talk with
leading coalition politicians. He did not give any numbers.
Indications from other government circles, however, are that incomes
between 13,000 and 20,000 marks will be taxed at 15 percent. Beyond that
limit, a linearly increasing rate will take effect, beginning at 22
percent, and reaching 39 percent for incomes of 80,000 marks or more. The
resulting decrease in federal revenues is expected to be on the order of
75 billion marks. To make up for this loss, many tax exemptions will be
eliminated. The write-off for advertising costs will fall from 2,000 marks
to 1,300; pay supplements for working at night, on Sunday, and on holidays
will be made taxable; travel write-offs will be cut from 70 pfennigs per
kilometre to 40 pfennigs, and will only apply if the distance between home
and workplace is 15 km or more. Apparently no decision has yet been made
about the possibility of increasing the Value-Added Tax. Finance Minister
Waigel had said that he could imagine raising it by 1 percentage point, to
16 percent. FDP and CDU politicians have, however, rejected this idea.
Also left open is the question of taxing pensions.
The government's tax reform commission completed its deliberations on the
planned changes at the Petersberg in Bonn this evening. Overall, taxpayers
are expected to feel 25 billion marks' worth of tax relief. The package of
reforms is to be presented publicly tomorrow.
Member of parliament for the CDU, Hauser, called the disagreement within
the Union parties (CDU and CSU) about the tax reforms a normal process and
a tempest in a teapot this morning. In an interview, Hauser said that tax
reform made taxpayers - but also politicians - nervous because it had been
linked with the possibility of an increase in the Value-Added Tax. He
continued that that was the reason a decision should have been made before
Christmas. According to Hauser, the reforms must now quickly be passed
into law, so that calm could return. In his own words: "It annoys people
that a different pig is being run through the village every week." Hauser
also wanted a decision made about taxing pensions.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-2>
<H1>
Kohl's visit to the Czech republic ends
</H1>
Concluding his 2-day visit in the Czech capital, German Chancellor
Kohl met with the Cardinal of Prague, Wuelck, today. Following that
meeting, Kohl was received by Czech head-of-state Vaclav Havel at his
private residence for lunch. The primary topic of the meeting was the
development of bilateral relations. Kohl said that he there reiterated his
desire that the Czech republic be accepted into the European Union.
Yesterday Kohl and Czech Prime Minister Klaus signed the German-Czech
Declaration of Reconciliation.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-3>
<H1>
All cows from Britain and Switzerland to be slaughtered
</H1>
After the latest case of mad cow disease in Germany, all the cows of
British or Swiss origin in the country are to be killed. State secretaries
of agriculture and health, at federal and state levels, came to this
decision today at a special conference in Bonn. More than 5,000 animals
are affected. According to indications from the federal Economic Ministry,
farmers will be paid compensation. What will happen with the off-spring of
these animals is still an open question. No decision is expected to be
made on that score until it is certain whether the calf that died of the
disease in Hoechster had been infected by the mother. All of the
approximately 14,000 descendant bovines are to be seized and placed under
observation
Previously, Agricultural Minister Borchert had made assurances that the
infected calf did not represent any risk to consumers. In the meantime,
the entire herd of Galloway cows on the farm from which that one came have
been slaughtered. However, according to the latest reports, it is again
unclear if the afflicted animal was actually the off-spring of a British
mother. Apparently the supposed mother cow was imported from Britain to
Holland, where it was then slaughtered and processed, without any
indications of the disease.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-4>
<H1>
Top-level wage talks in private banking industry
</H1>
Union and management in the private banking industry met
today in Koenigstein (Taunus) for their second top-level discussion. The
unions' main goals are a continuation of full sick pay, and measures
toward job security. The Trade, Banking, and Insurance Union is demanding
pay increases of up to 3.7 percent, as well as a shorter work-week of 35
hours. The National Union of Employees emphasized that wage increases
should correspond to the excellent economic situation being experienced by
the banking industry.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-5>
<H1>
Judgement against "Chicken Baron" Pohlmann legally valid
</H1>
The judgement against Anton Pohlmann, known as the "Chicken
Baron" is legally valid. The Federal High Court rejected the former bird
breeder's appeal. The 57-year-old was given a suspended sentence and a
fine of millions of marks for denial of assistance, among other things. He
prevented a life-threateningly ill colleague from seeking medical help for
a significant period of time. The illness can be traced to an illegal
nicotine-sulfate solution being sprayed in Pohlmann's chicken batteries.
In the opinion of the Karlsruhe judges, Pohlmann should even have been
punished more severely.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-6>
<H1>
Kelly Family denies rumours of leaving Germany
</H1>
The music group, the Kelly Family, has denied reports of wanting
to give up their home in Cologne and leave Germany. Reports that their
houseboat was to be sold were also false, according a statement issued
today. The group does, however, want to go on concert trips to the
Americas and Asia.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-7>
<H1>
Nuclear power plant in Obrigheim can continue operating
</H1>
The Baden-Wurttemberg nuclear power plant in Obrigheim can remain
in operation. The Federal Administrative Court in Berlin has rejected a
case by residents and the City of Heidelberg against the long-term
operating permit which the plant was granted in 1992. Thus, the appeal of
a previous case has been won by the state and the managing company. The
plaintiffs had charged that the safety of the plant had not been
sufficiently tested, and the first trial was decided in their favour. The
Federal Administrative Court reversed that decision on formal grounds,
finding that the lack of operational safety during the plant's years of
operation was not relevant to the permit, but rather to the supervision of
the plant - which German law clearly differentiates from one another.
The plant, built in 1965, is considered by critics of nuclear energy to be
one of the most dangerous in Germany. The lawyer for the plaintiffs
announced that a constitutional challenge would be instigated.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-8>
<H1>
Stoiber: German-Czech declaration a step into the future
</H1>
Bavarian Premier Stoiber has called the German-Czech Declaration
of Reconciliation a step into the future, even though the CSU does not
approve of the document in some points. In an interview, Stoiber referred
especially to the possibilities that could present themselves in the
planned discussion forum. He said it was now very important that the Czech
side enter into a discussion with the affected party, the Sudetenland
Germans, within the framework of this forum. In Stoiber's opinion, the
declaration would miss its goal without a dialogue involving those who had
lost their homeland.
Meanwhile, a spokesman for the CSU emphasized that the party would, as
planned, want to introduce an additional declaration at the final
discussion of the agreement in the bundestag on January 30. CSU members
want to make it clear that they do not consider the document negotiated
between Bonn and Prague to be the political or moral final word.

<DOC de-news-1997-01-22-9>
<H1>
Bavarian soccer manager Hoehness regrets remarks
</H1>
The manager of the Bavarian soccer team FC Bayern, Uli Hoehness,
has taken back his controversial comments about Munich city councillors.
Hoehness said he was sorry about his statement that someone should "throw
some of the back-benchers on city council up against the wall". He said
that the phrasing just burst out in the heat of the moment.
The team manager had become angry over calls to raise the yearly lease for
the 70,000 square metre training grounds by a substantial amount over the
present 6,000 marks. SPD, FDP, and Green city councillors demanded an
apology. Councillors belonging to the CSU also condemned Hoehness's words.

