<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-1>
<H1>
"Foreigners' ombudsman" says politicians have missed the boat
</H1>
After seven years in office as the federal government's commissioner for
"foreigners", Cornelia Schmalz-Jacobsen of the FDP today gave a final
assessment of her work. She said that there was no alternative to
integrating foreigners living in Germany, that Germany was a destination
for immigration in fact, and that the debate on whether it should be
considered one or not was merely wearying. The greatest failure of the
past years, she said, was that politicians in Bonn and in Eastern Germany
failed to pay due attention to the increase in right-wing activity in the
East. Her report described the integration of immigrants into German
society as the most important task in politics today. Schmalz-Jacobsen
continued, saying that the primary pre-requisite for that goal would be a
reform of citizenship laws.
The FDP politician is not running for re-election next month, and is
leaving the ombudsmanship after seven years there.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-2>
<H1>
Restitution for Holocaust victims: agreement won't stop lawsuit
</H1>
Following an agreement with Jewish organizations and American attorneys on
compensation for Holocaust victims, Allianz insurance has promised quick
restitution. According to a spokesman for the company, Allianz hopes that
the agreement will make joint legal proceedings, already in progress
against it, unnecessary. Cases of this nature can drag out over very long
periods of time in the United States. Allianz says, however, that it wants
the compensation to reach victims quickly. German and other European
insurance companies agreed last night to establish a commission to
determine the payments due from insurance claims. The commission is
supposed to examine the claims on insurance policies that were not paid
out after World War II because the Nazis killed or drove out the policy
holders, and the insurance companies refused to make payments.
However, the joint lawsuit will not be halted. Despite the agreement
between insurance companies and Jewish groups, the legal battle will be
carried on, according to the lawyer for the plaintiffs. He added that the
agreement had been made without the participation of the Jewish families
concerned, and did not grant them any formal legal entitlement.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-3>
<H1>
Bubis applauds Allianz' example
</H1>
The chairman of the German Jewish Council, Ignaz Bubis, has praised the
agreement reached by Allianz and other European insurance companies to
compensate the descendants of Holocaust victims. Bubis said he hoped that
other businesses and insurance companies would follow that example.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-4>
<H1>
Bavarian state SPD leader Schmidt will stay in Bavaria
</H1>
Leader of the Bavarian state SPD, Renate Schmidt, has ended speculation
about her political future. Even if the federal SPD wins the Bundestag
elections next month, she will remain as a member of the Bavarian Landtag,
and not go to Bonn, she said. Schmidt said that offers had been made to
her, but that she saw her place as being in Bavaria. Other parties had
accused her of political opportunism - being available as a top candidate
for her party only if it involved no risk to her. Schmidt admitted that
until a few weeks ago she had planned on moving to Bonn if the SPD won;
but then, she said, she came to doubt whether the responsibilities of a
federal minister were reconcilable with those of a state party leader.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-5>
<H1>
Kohl still quiet about possibility of mid-term succession
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Helmut Kohl continues to refuse to say how long he will
remain in office, should he be re-elected Chancellor. In a newspaper
interview, he would only say that he was running for the next legislative
period. He again left open the question of whether he would remain in
office for the full four years, or would pass the torch to
successor-designate Wolfgang Schaeuble during that time. Meanwhile, CDU
parliamentary group leader Schaeuble, in another interview, fuelled
speculation of an early departure for Kohl, saying "the Chancellor is not
ruling out new developments". Meanwhile, in the ranks of the FDP, the
junior partner in the currently governing Coalition, more and more voices
are calling for Kohl to name a date when he will turn the reigns over to
Schaeuble.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-6>
<H1>
Federal Customs 1997 report released
</H1>
The drug trade and brand-name piracy are booming in Germany. According to
the newly-released Customs Report for 1997, customs agents seized drugs
with a street value of 250 million DM last year. The quantity of hashish
they secured, 5.6 tonnes, was triple the 1996 amount. In the fight against
brand piracy, German customs authorities seized 9.3 million DM worth of
goods, or quadruple last year's value.
The total amount of revenue brought in by German customs in 1997, in the
form of import and excise taxes, was 145 billion DM.

<DOC de-news-1998-08-26-7>
<H1>
Bavarian schools go on-line
</H1>
As of the beginning of the new school year, most secondary schools in
Bavaria will be equipped with computer and internet connections. The
Bavarian Minister for Culture, Hans Zehetmair, announced that almost all
Gymnasien, Realschulen, and Hauptschulen (kinds of secondary schools,
varying in age ranges and emphasis on academic/vocational curricula) in
the sate would be outfitted with computer rooms boasting at least 15 work
stations each. Those schools that do not have access to the internet yet
are expected to have it by the end of the year.

