<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-1>
<H1>
Bundeswehr passenger airplane has probably crashed
</H1>
A Bundeswehr (German Army) passenger airplane with 24 people on board
has probably crashed near the African coast. According to the Minister of
Defense, the plane, a Russian "Tupolev 154", has been missing since
yesterday afternoon which was when the last radio transmission was
received.  It has most probably crashed into the sea about 1500 kilometers
west of Angola. There were ten crew members on board, twelve other soldiers
and two wives. The soldiers were on their way to participate in a sailing
regatta for the 75th anniversary of the South African marine corps.
According to Minister Ruehe, there is no hope that the soldiers are alive.

<P>
The airplane was flying from Cologne/Bonn to Cape Town. Minister Ruehe said
that the plane had not transmitted any distress signals, so the reason and
the exact location of the crash is not as yet known. First search efforts
have not found anything. A team of Bundeswehr experts left for South Africa
in the evening. Other countries have offered their help. There are
indications that the plane might have collided with another airplane.
According to unconfirmed reports, an airplane of the US airforce which was
in the same area at the same time is missing as well and American
satellites have taken a picture of a bright flash of light in the South
Atlantic.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-2>
<H1>
DGB criticizes finance policy
</H1>
The German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) has strongly
criticized the German government financial policies. Mr. Geuenich, an
executive board member of the DGB, said that although the government has
been drastically cutting back on spending, it has also been granting tax
concessions to businesses and certain privileged groups. He continued that
in spite of the savings, Germany will most likely not fulfill the
conditions for monetary union. As to the goal of decreasing unemployment,
Mr. Geuenich concluded that the government's course  will end in disaster
this year. The DGB has also called for more money to be invested in the
fight against unemployment.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-3>
<H1>
Seehofer criticizes East-German public health insurance companies
</H1>
Minister of Health Horst Seehofer has called for East German public
health insurance companies to be more thrifty. The CSU politician said to
the TV station "ZDF" that it is not acceptable that some East-German
insurance company's per capita drug use is higher than in the West. At the
same time, he acknowledged that his policy had contributed to high deficits
in the East German states. However, Mr. Seehofer stressed that it was a
conscious decision to adjust medical care standards in the East to those in
the West after the reunification. He announced another meeting with
representatives from the East German states will be scheduled for the
second half of the month to resolve these problems.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-4>
<H1>
Drivers' licenses to be suspended for misdemeanors?
</H1>
Politicians of all the major parties support a move to suspend
drivers' licenses for small offenses instead of imposing fines. Mr. Eylmann
of the CDU, who is the chairman of the Bundestag legal committee, said in
an interview with the weekly paper "Bild am Sonntag" that most people would
perceive the loss of mobility as punishment. Losing driving privileges is
therefore more effective than a fine or a term of short imprisonment. Mr.
Simm (sp?), a Member of Parliament for the SPD, said that suspending
drivers' licenses has the advantage of affecting rich and poor people
equally. Legal experts from the CDU, FDP and the Green Party as well as the
Association of Judges have also welcomed the idea.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-5>
<H1>
Bank Federation president supports extended Euro participation
</H1>
Mr. Kohlhausen, the President of the Federation of German Banks,
is in favor of including as many countries as possible when the Euro is
introduced. Mr. Kohlhausen told the radio station "Deutschlandfunk" that
the discipline and efforts of the Mediterranean countries should not be
underestimated. Participation in introducing the Euro should be extended
and could include all the important European economies from the start, he
said. As to the date for the introduction of the Euro, the Mr. Kohlhausen
said a delay would not be a catastrophe, but he saw no reason why there
should be a delay.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-6>
<H1>
Lafontaine: SPD supports Schroeder's demands
</H1>
According to Oskar Lafontaine, the head of the Social Democratic
Party (SPD), the SPD fully supports Gerhard Schroeder, State Premier of
Lower Saxony, in his proposed economic policy. The SPD are of the opinion
that Germany needs to be innovative to lower unemployment and secure
prosperity. Particularly important is the fight against unemployment
amongst young people. Mr. Lafontaine also demanded tax relief for those of
average income and lower indirect wage costs. Mr. Schroeder has drafted his
economic policy proposals in cooperation with Ms. Fuchs, the Party Vice
Chairwoman, for presentation at the SPD convention . The motion will be
presented to the party leadership tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-7>
<H1>
Lower Saxony initiates more flexible employment of teachers
</H1>
Lower Saxony will be the first state to be more flexible in the
allocation of teachers. A Bundesrat [upper house of parliament] initiative
to this effect is being drafted. Teachers of the two types of secondary
schools (Hauptschule and Realschule) will be allowed to teach at primary
schools and vice versa. Lower Saxony first wants to combine teacher
training for the three different types of schools. The cabinet in Hannover
approved a motion to this effect last week.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-8>
<H1>
Herzog warns against hate and xenophobia
</H1>
German President Roman Herzog has warned against hate,
xenophobia and prejudice in Germany. The Nazi past shows where such ideas
lead, said President Herzog during a ceremony for the 100th anniversary of
the Jewish community in Straubing, Bavaria. The memory of the crimes of the
terror regime has to be kept alive and obligates to be alert. Herzog
stressed that even if issues of the past are still current, it does not
separate German Jews from their fellow citizens. This is thanks to those
Jews who, in spite of the injustice they suffered, continued to see Germany
as their home and stayed in order to rebuild trust.

<DOC de-news-1997-09-14-9>
<H1>
Violence at Wehrmacht exhibition in Marburg
</H1>
Fighting between right and left wing groups broke out during
rallies in connection with the Wehrmacht exhibition (German Armed Forces
during the second World War) in Marburg in the state of Hesse, in spite of
a large police presence. Several people were injured. Police arrested two
demonstrators. The exhibition by the Hamburg Institute for Social Studies
on the role of the Wehrmacht was opened on Friday in Marburg. A ban on such
rallies issued by the city of Marburg was reversed by a court two days ago.

