<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-1>
<H1>
Accident involving hazardous goods truck
</H1>
A truck carrying hazardous goods was involved in an accident
on the A1 autobahn last night. According to police, the truck from
Belgium crashed into vehicles that had come to a stop at the side of the
road, bursting into flames. Contaminants had seeped into the soil and
the groundwater with the water used to douse the fire, police said. The
environmental and property damage is estimated to be close to 2 million
marks. Police said a probable cause was driver fatigue.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-2>
<H1>
Retail sector wage bargaining: union gets court order against Norma
</H1>
The HBV retail, banking and insurance employees union has
achieved a partial success in its legal dispute with the Norma chain of
retail stores. The Regensburg Labour Court ordered a temporary
injunction against Norma which prohibits the company from labelling the
HBV's industrial action "unlawful". A second application for an
injunction, brought by the HBV to stop what they consider an illegal
lock-out by Norma, will be looked at by the court on August 22. Norma
had threatened Regensburg workers with dismissal because it considers
their streik unlawful.
Meanwhile, the strikes used as a weapon by the unions in their fight to
make employers accept the pilot agreement continued today. The focus
were North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse and Bavaria. The main topic of debate
remains the size of the penalty rates to be paid because of the new
extended opening hours permitted by the new business hours law, starting
November.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-3>
<H1>
Federal Government rejects call for minimum wages
</H1>
Federal Cabinet has rejected the proposal of the Bundesrat upper
house of parliament to let the Labour Minister fix minimum wages in
certain circumstances. The Labour Ministry released a statement saying
that the proposal coming from the "Laender" states' representative body
would mean the first step towards a legally binding minimum wage and
thus lead to an undesirable politicisation of the wage bargaining
process. The topic had been discussed this morning at the Cabinet
meeting in Bonn. A generally binding minimum wage in the construction
industry has so far been unable to clear resistance put up by the
employers' representatives at the Labour Ministry's wage bargaining
committee.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-4>
<H1>
Cabinet talks on program to further information technology
</H1>
Federal Cabinet today approved a new program designed to further
information technology. It is supposed to facilitate access to scholarly
works by researchers, libraries and specialist publishers. The
Government sees the four-year program, costing 1.9 billion marks, as a
new step in Germany's entry into the information society. German
scientists and engineers will be able to gain easier access to
electronic and multimedia libraries and databases around the world
without having to leave their workspace.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-5>
<H1>
Number of bankruptcies reaches record level
</H1>
The number of bankruptcies in Germany continues to reach
record levels. According to the Federal Bureau of Statistics in
Wiesbaden, some 2.600 bankruptcies were registered in May this year, a
rise by more than 12 per cent. As the number of personal and business
bankruptcies during the first five months of this year had already
increased markedly compared with the previous year at 13.000, the Bureau
expects an overall record number for the whole of the year 1996.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-6>
<H1>
Council of German Districts: councils are facing financial collapse
</H1>
Local councils in Germany are facing financial collapse in the
opinion of Hans Gottfried Bernrath, president of the Council of German
Districts organisation. It was untenable, Bernrath said, that the
federal and "Laender" states kept on burdening the councils with more
and more spending demands while at the same time not making additional
means available. For instance, the Federal Government's planned
reduction of employment programs would only lead to a rise in the number
of social benefit recipients - to be paid by cities and local councils.
Social benefits spending alone had reached an overall level of 60
billion marks, Bernrath added. He also called for a way to compensate
councils for the planned abolition of the local trade tax on capital.
The abolition, proposed by the Bonn coalition government, had to be made
up for by an annual payment of 7.5 billion marks from sales tax,
Bernrath argued. Many councils were already unable to fulfill their
social and cultural obligations, he continued. There had to be a radical
reform of the councils' fiscal system before the year 2000, regulating
afresh the future distribution of tax revenue and the apportioning of
duties and responsibilities, he said.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-7>
<H1>
Calls for co-operative effort by secret services against Scientology
</H1>
Head of the North Rhine-Westphalian "Verfassungsschutz"
domestic intelligence agency Baumann has called for a concerted effort
by the German secret services in the fight against the Scientology
organisation. In a newspaper interview, Baumann said individual
operations against the "psychosect" promised little if any success. The
organisational structures and leading cadres of Scientology could only
be untangled and investigated in a joint effort. The observation of
Scientology by the domestic intelligence agency is controversial in
other "Laender" states. The organisation meanwhile has lodged formal
complaints with the UN and the OSCE about being discriminated against as
a religious minority in Germany.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-8>
<H1>
SPD and HBV call for reining in of "590-mark-jobs"
</H1>
The Social Democrats parliamentary faction and the HBV retail,
banking and insurance union have released a joint statement calling for
a legal reining in of the so-called "590-mark-jobs". SPD faction leader
Scharping said the "marginal employment" category affected some 6
million people. This number was bound to rise with the introduction of
the new opening hours in the retail industry. Scharping accused
companies employing large shares of their workforce in 590-mark-jobs of
acting in a manner detrimental to the community. He called for the
introduction of social insurance payments to be funded by employers,
which had to be used to lower payments to pensions and health insurance
schemes. Scharping said the latter payments would be able to be lowered
by .4 per cent if all marginally employed workers were integrated into
the social insurance scheme.

<DOC de-news-1996-08-14-9>
<H1>
Court allows hunger strikers to enter country on formal grounds
</H1>
Frankfurt (Main). The Frankfurt Administrative Court has granted,
apparently on formal grounds, a permit to enter the country to the
Afghan family that had been on hunger strike since last week. The court
found that the entry had already become a fact as the family had been
brought to the city's hospitals for observation. This meant that the
border patrol authority was no longer permitted to deny entry.
Last week the Federal Ministry of the Interior on the other hand had
ordered that the family be expelled into a "third safe country". The
family, who had already been deported and refused entry to Moldavia in
mid-July, had commenced a hunger strike in the Frankfurt airport transit
area on their return.

