<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-1>
<H1>
No decision on 1999 budget until January '99
</H1>
The federal government is planning to announce next year's budget on
20th January. In the Bundestag today, Finance Minister Oskar
Lafontaine announced that the budget would be enacted in June, after
discussion in parliament; he said that it would be impossible to
organise this for the start of the year due to the change of
government, and that the opposition could not realistically expect
otherwise. A member of the Bundestag for the CDU, Austermann, had
earlier accused Lafontaine of violating the constitution because of
the delay.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-2>
<H1>
First round of insurance sector pay talks adjourned
</H1>
The first round of the pay talks which will affect the approximately
220,000 people working in the insurance sector has been adjourned
without result. The employers' side had set out a first offer at the
talks in Duesseldorf which included an across-the-board increase in
salaries of 1 per cent and a one-off payment, although no amount was
given, for an agreement that would run for 12 months. The employers
also want an increase in 'old-age part-time' work. The unions HBV and
DAG rejected the offer. The unions are calling for an increase of 6.5
per cent; the negotiations are due to recommence in January.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-3>
<H1>
Federal Labour Office to get better funding for job creation
</H1>
The federal government has increased the funding for job creation to
DM 41 billion, which is an increase of nearly 10 per cent; the Federal
Labour Office will now receive a total of DM 105 billion, which is DM
3 billion less than this year. The budget plan also includes a
programme of immediate measures to reduce youth unemployment; the
programme's goal is that 100,000 young people will find a job next
year. Federal Employment Minister Riester has signed an agreement with
the Federal Labour Office in Nuremberg, which officially commissions
the Office to put the programme into practice.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-4>
<H1>
SPD hits back against Dressler's criticism of health reforms
</H1>
Following the lead of the leader of the SPD's parliamentary party,
Struck, now also Andrea Fischer, the Federal Health Minister has
spoken out to reject the criticism of the planned health reform.
Fischer announced that there would be a vote on the new health law in
the Bundestag tomorrow, as planned. She said that the health programme
was soundly financed and would guarantee stable contribution levels.
The SPD spokesman on social issues, Dressler, had said beforehand that
a few errors in the formulation of the law were being corrected; in
the hectic discussions, it had not been noticed that the reform would
increase costs by DM 1 billion, instead of saving that amount. The
programme provides for the reduction of prescription costs to DM 8, DM
9 and DM 10, and chronically ill patients will not have to pay at all
for prescriptions; the coverage for dentist's costs for false teeth
will also be restored for those born after 1978.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-5>
<H1>
SPD man Claus Matthiesen dies at 57
</H1>
Claus Matthiesen (sp?), who was a politician from the ranks of the
SPD, has died suddenly at the age of 57. Matthiesen had resigned his
political responsibilities at the start of November, after a political
career which lasted for 25 years, and had taken a job with a private
company. His death caused wide-spread shock in all political parties;
the Prime Minister of North-Rhine Westphalia, Clement, said that
Matthiesen had been a passionate politician who had helped to form
policy in North-Rhine Westphalia for more than 15 years. The leader of
the CDU in North-Rhine Westphalia, Bluem, also spoke well of
Matthiesen, saying that he had been an honourable man.

<DOC de-news-1998-12-09-6>
<H1>
Bayern Muenchen through to quarter finals of Champions' League
</H1>
Following hard on the heels of FC Kaiserslauten, the soccer club FC
Bayern Muenchen has made it through as the second German club to reach
the quarter finals of the Champions' League. A 1:1 draw against
Manchester United was enough to ensure the club's leading position in
group D, with 11 points. Who is to play who in the quarter finals will
be decided on 16th December in Geneva; the games are to be played in
March.

