<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-1>
<H1>
Kinkel: Development in Bosnia close to turning point
</H1>
According to Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, the developments in Bosnia-
Herzegovina are close to a turning point.  On the second anniversary of the
Dayton Agreement, Kinkel said in Bonn that the election of the new State
Premier Dodek (sp?) in the Serbian sector marked the first chance for a
breakthrough towards real peace. Now, peace saboteurs and brakemen could
not speak for the Serbs any more. He said that the election of Dodek also
opened doors for further repatriation of refugees.  Kinkel announced new
international support for the government of the Bosnian Serb Republic. DM
1.6 bn in EU funds, frozen up to now, shall be released.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-2>
<H1>
Westerwelle demands special regulations for the surveillance attack
</H1>
During the discussions of the so-called Grand Surveillance Attack, FDP
Secretary General Guido Westerwelle seconded requests for special
regulations for journalists. Not only should journalists be excepted from
acoustic surveillance, Westerwelle said prior to a meeting of the Party
Council, but the protection of editors' newsrooms and informants should
also receive re-consideration. This Friday, the Bundesrat wants to vote on
the surveillance attack compromise that has already passed the Bundestag.
The Social Democrats ask that journalists, lawyers and medical doctors be
protected from possible surveillance attacks. Up to now, only defense
counsels, the clergy and members of parliament are protected.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-3>
<H1>
Children's Commission points out growing poverty in Germany
</H1>
The Children's Commission of the Bundestag has pointed to the increasing
poverty of families in Germany and demanded financial relief. Members of
parliament from all parties stressed that despite improvements, such as the
increase in child allowance, the available support often does not secure
the economic existence of children. Hence, the funds for basic needs in the
maintenance laws have to be increased substantially and adjusted
continuously.  According to the Children's Commission, about 1 million
children received federal welfare payments in 1995.  Besides increasing
unemployment rates, separations and divorces were also as responsible for
the growing poverty, said the parliamentarians.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-4>
<H1>
Vilmar supports planned non-smoking law
</H1>
The Presdident of the Federal Doctors' Council, Karsten Vilmar, supports
the planned anti-smoking law. On ZDF public TV, Vilmar emphasized that this
bill was the only way to protect non-smokers in the workplace. Hopes for
appeals to the good sense had proven deceptive. Last Thursday, the
Bundestag debated the proposal drafted by 150 members of parliament from
all factions. According to this blueprint, public buildings, public
transport, and workplaces are to be non-smoking areas. Only designated
smoking areas would allowed. Offences could be fined with DM 5000.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-5>
<H1>
Grand surveillance attack: mediation proceedings likely
</H1>
In the arguments about the grand surveillance attack, legal proceedings for
mediation between the Bundesrat and the Bundestag are likely to be
initiated. After a meeting of the Party Council, SPD Chairman Oskar
Lafontaine announced today that the Saarland and other SPD-governed states
would agree to the required change of the German constitution, the
Grundgesetz. With regard to the regulations for execution, the Mediation
Committee of the Bundestag and Bundesrat will be approached. Lafontaine's
reasoning was that in such a legal regulation all persons with the right to
refuse testimony should be excluded from bugging. However, the SPD chairman
would not commit himself as to whether the proposed mediation proceedings
would find a majority in the Bundesrat.
The Federal Minister of the Interior, Manfred Kanther, once again refused
changes in the surveillance attack compromise. Kanther explained in Bonn
that the 'package' will remain as it is and that it should not be
disassembled by taking the pick of the bunch.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-6>
<H1>
"Project Safety Net" to be extended
</H1>
The fight against crime in German cities shall be intensified using
American concepts. At the conference of the state ministers of the
interior, an agreement was reached for a concept based on the "Aktion
Sicherheitsnetz" ("Project Safety Net"), an course of action initiated by
Federal Minister of the Interior Manfred Kanther. According to this idea,
the activities of the police is to be closely linked with those of youth,
social, and immigration agencies. The Chairman of the Conference of the
State Ministers of the Interior, Zuber, said that in urban centres in
particular, the reinforced presence of police should provide an increased
sense of security to residents. The proejct would be directed against
aggressive begging, noise pollution, and the littering of public areas.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-7>
<H1>
Deportation of Algerian refugees remains possible
</H1>
Algerian refugees can still be deported from Germany, despite the
continuing wave of terrorist attacks and massacres in their home country.
At a meeting today in Bonn, the state and federal ministers of the interior
failed to come to an agreement to stop deportation. The corresponding
proposal did not find a majority. However, Conference Chairman Zuber said
after the meeting that they did agree to carefully check each individual
case prior to possible deportation. B90/The Greens called the attitude of
the ministers of the interior cynical and contemptuous of humanity. The
Greens' Chairman of the Executive Board, Juergen Trittin, said that with
this decision, Germany ignored binding international law. The refugee aid
organisation ProAsyl declared the vote was a terrible fiasco in the face of
the endless terror in Algeria, as well as a sign of political weakness. The
organisation called it embarrassing that political gridlock and disputes
within the parties overrode even humanitarian affairs.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-8>
<H1>
Regulatory acency permits decrease in Telecom fees
</H1>
Following its original plan, German Telekom can decrease its fees on March
1. The company said that the regulatory acency for postal services and
telecommunications approved the lowering of fees. Telekom customers would
save about DM 2 bn. The largest savings would be in domestic long-distance
calls, but international calls, long-duration calls, and calls to Telekom's
mobile (cell) phone network will also be cheaper.

<DOC de-news-1998-02-02-9>
<H1>
Weather
</H1>
In the north and west occasional snow during the evening and night, later
also in the central part of Germany; sleet and rain on the North Sea coast.
Highs -3 to -9 degree Celsius;  around 0 in the northwest. Tomorrow,
changeable conditions north of the river Main and occasional snow or rain,
south of it partly sunny, partly covered; -5 to +4 degrees Celsius.
Forecast: changeable in the north German lowlands and in North-Rhine
Westphalia with occasional precipitation, mostly as rain; +2 to +7 degrees
Celsius. In the south, calm, partly sunny, partly foggy winter weather; -4
to +2 degrees Celsius.

