<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-1>
<H1>
Bluem says industry is unenterprising
</H1>
Federal Minister of Labor Bluem has accused German industry of not doing
enough to create new jobs.  Employment agencies have funds set aside for
job-training programs.  However, companies and businesses have not used these
funds.  The new job market statistics will be available on Tuesday and it is
expected that that number of unemployed has slightly decreased in March.  On
Bavarian Radio, Mr. Bluem called for industry to take advantage of the
available funds which the Federal Labor Office has provided.  This year, an
additional 3.7 billion marks were available---funds not used last year.
"What is the point of offering money, if no one comes to get it.  We are not
lacking in ideas nor funds.  The problem lies in utilizing these resources
and implementing these ideas.  We need people who go into new areas, people
who actually do something.  We need employers who provide employment and
enterprises that are enterprising and do not just sit in their easy chair,"
Mr. Bluem added.  As an example of the funds available for the job market,
Mr. Bluem referred to training which is paid for by the employment agencies.
This training is designed to help people who have been unemployed for a long
period of time to once again work in industry.  He called the argument that
companies are at risk in hiring the long-term unemployed an excuse.  He also
mentioned that the large amount of overtime hours in Germany discourages
solidarity.  If it were possible to cut 40 percent of 1.8 million overtime
hours annually, 300,000 people would again be employed.  Finally, Mr. Bluem
offered a solution for those who argue that they cannot employ people because
the future of their orders is uncertain: they should hire temporary workers.
There are many tools at their disposal.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-2>
<H1>
Kanther calls for a European finger print registry
</H1>
Federal Minister of the Interior Kanther has called for the design of a
European finger print registry.  According to Mr. Kanther, such a move is
necessary to prevent illegal entry into the country, now that border controls
have been discontinued.  The registry would contain files of anyone applying
for asylum and all illegal immigrants in the EU.  Kanther's plan is not
entirely new.  A spokesman of the Ministry of the Interior announced on the
radio program B5-aktuell that the topic has been discussed since the first of
the year.  Kanther called for a finger print registry dubbed "EuroDat" in
January at a summit of EU ministers of the interior.  Shortly before this
meeting, a group of Kurdish refugees made their way from Iraq to Germany.
They traveled by sea to Italy.  They were given two weeks to return home.
Instead of returning home, however, they traveled to Germany.  The Ministry
of the Interior wants to restrict such illegal migration within the EU in the
future.  Bonn insists that every country should register the finger prints of
detainees.  Other countries would only have to look at a computer to
ascertain where the refugee is from and then send him back home.  According
to the Schengen Treaty, the country where the person seeking asylum first
appeared is also the country which must deal with him.  A central database,
Bonn hopes, would reduce the influx of asylum applicants into Germany.
According to the spokesman, EuroDat will become a reality.  While a definite
timeframe has not yet been worked out, he added, Germany and the Netherlands
are two strong advocates.  In some countries, however, some obstacles still
have to be overcome.  It is not difficult to guess that Italy, Greece and
Spain are the countries in question.  Obligatory finger prints would only
bring more people seeking asylum to their doorstep.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-3>
<H1>
Saar-SPD begins campaign with top candidate Lafontaine
</H1>
SPD party chief Oskar Lafontaine was the top candidate in the Saarland state
party election and wins the Bundestag nomination.  At a delegates' conference
in Schiffweiler the fifty-four-year-old politician got 341 out of 346 votes.
Only three delegates voted no while two abstained.  The SPD chairman was met
with a standing ovation in the afternoon.  The fact that he had to yield the
candidacy for federal chancellor to Gerhard Schroeder of Lower Saxony, made
little difference to his admirers.  For the most part, Oskar Lafontaine is
still the favorite.  This is particular true in the place that he calls home.
He received 98.5 percent of the votes and was nominated as the top candidate
for SPD-Saar for the Bundestag election in fall.  The SPD chairman was also
quite clear in his intent to accept the Bundestag mandate.  More simply
stated, everything seems to suggest that in fall, Mr. Lafontaine will finally
move onto the stage of federal of politics in Bonn.  He noted that the
Saarland would benefit from his campaign as well.  The SPD chairman did not
state which position in Bonn he would like to hold.  One thing is clear,
however: Reinhard Klimt, the SPD state chairman, would take over Lafontaine's
position as the minister president of Saarland.  He has been like a crown
prince for 13 years and hopes that he can follow in the footsteps of Wolfgang
Clement from North Rhine-Westphalia.  He wishes that his waiting to climb
upward in the party ranks would finally come to an end in the fall after the
elections.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-4>
<H1>
PDS adopts preamble of its campaign platform
</H1>
 The PDS has adopted the preamble of its election campaign platform
at its party congress.  The PDS has declared itself an absolute proponent of
democratic socialism.  The motion put forward by party leadership for the
actual election campaign platform will be studied by 550 delegates.  The
platform calls for the redistribution of assets and measures against
unemployment.  Several suggestion were the objects of controversy.  These
include plans to reduce the work day by 20 percent and to have shorter hours
with no loss of pay for middle and lower incomes.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-5>
<H1>
Draft of CDU election campaign platform criticized
</H1>
 Mr. Friedrich, deputy chairman of the CSU recently discussed the
draft of the CDU election campaign platform.  He explained in an interview
with South German Radio that the CSU will allow no environmental tax.  This
is also true if the CDU wants an energy or carbon dioxide emission tax.
Mr. Friedrich also urged the CDU not to restrict 620 mark jobs.  The
middle-size companies in industry need these special part-time employments
that are exempt from social security taxes.  On behalf of the CSU, Friedrich
once again called for the reduction of Germany's total contribution to the
European Union.  The CDU platform draft which was written by a CDU commission
under the leadership of parliamentary group head Schaeuble was criticized
yesterday by the SPD and the Greens.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-6>
<H1>
Greens for a more objective energy discussion
</H1>
 Following the CDU's initiative for higher energy taxes, the Greens
hope for a more objective discussion about higher energy costs.  Mr. Fischer,
chairman of the Bundestag group of the Greens, stressed that higher energy
prices are the key to lowering wage deductions and subsequently for creating
more jobs.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-7>
<H1>
Wissmann: fine more for unbuckled seat belts and illegal parking
</H1>
 Federal Transportation Minister Wissmann wants higher fines for people
who do not buckle their seat belts or who park illegally.  The Ministry of
Transportation confirmed a corresponding newspaper report.  The Bundestag
will make an appropriate ruling on the matter before its summer recess.
People who fail to buckle up their children should pay 80 marks instead of 40
and have one punitive point added to their driving record.  Adults who do not
buckle up should pay a fine of 60 marks.  Those who park in handicapped
parking areas should be penalized with much greater fines.  In the future,
people who forget to inform the transport authority about any name or address
changes will be out 30 marks.

<DOC de-news-1998-04-04-8>
<H1>
200,000 more housing units needed in Baden-Wuerttemberg
</H1>
 According to the renters' association, over 200,000 additional
living units are needed in Baden-Wuerttemberg.  The need for rentable living
space is particularly acute in cities.  At a housing policy forum organized
by the Baden-Wuerttemberg state division of the SPD, representatives of the
renters' association, the construction industry, unions and city councils
demanded more housing units that are affordable to families.

