<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-1>
<H1>
Agreement reached in metal and electronics industry in Saxony-Anhalt
</H1>
In Saxony-Anhalt employees of the metal and electronics industry are to
receive a pay rise backdated to January 1st. According to the labor union
in Hannover, IG Metall and the Employers' Union have recently agreed to a
settlement based on the draft wage agreement reached in December.
Under the new agreement, employees will receive a lump sum payment of 200
DM from January until March. In April wages will rise by 1.5 per cent and
then one year later by a further 2.5 per cent. On February 25th, the
unions plan to hold negotiations on the controversial issue of continued
full wage payments to employees who are unfit for work.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-2>
<H1>
CDU, CSU and SPD expect tax reform talks to end in success
</H1>
CDU, CSU and SPD expect scheduled talks about tax reforms to end in
success. The State Premier of Lower-Saxony, Mr. Schroeder, has however
made it a condition that nightshift and shift work bonuses remain tax free.
The SPD parliamentary union leader, Mr. Struck, demanded also that the
tax burden for average wage earners should be reduced. The top tax
rate of 39 percent, proposed by the Finance Minister, Mr. Waigel is
too low in Mr. Struck's opinion. Mr. Waigel himself expects an agreement
to be reached by the middle of this year. In contrast, FDP secretary
general, Mr. Westerwelle, has warned the union politicians about making
concessions. In a Frankfurt Sunday newspaper, he urged FDP politicians not
to take the line of least resistance.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-3>
<H1>
DAG predicts tax reform as soon as 1998
</H1>
According to the German National Union of Employees, DAG, the scheduled
tax reform should become effective by the first of January next year.
The collapse of purchasing power expected as a result of rising levels of
unemployment and decreasing net income will make tax reliefs necessary
for the middle and lower income classes, according to a statement published
by the DAG chairman in Hamburg. The union has repeated its demand that
plans to tax bonuses for Sunday, nightshift and holiday work should be
withdrawn.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-4>
<H1>
Diller predicts deficit of 10 billion DM in federal budget
</H1>
SPD Bundestag delegate, Mr. Diller, is predicting an additional deficit of
at least 10 billion DM in the federal budget for the current year. In an
interview with a Berlin newspaper, he said that current developments
in the job market, coupled with falling levels of tax revenue, would make
budget planning at this early stage futile. He repeated his demand to
the federal government to introduce a supplementary budget to the
parliament. In contrast to Schleswig-Holstein's State Premire, Mrs.
Simonis, however, he rejected a budgetary freeze. In his opinion this
would be harmful for investments and would also endanger jobs.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-5>
<H1>
Vollmer in favour of remuneration law for payment of public officials
</H1>
Vice president of the Bundestag, Mrs. Vollmer, has proposed that the
payment of all public officials should be governed by a single remuneration
law. This could prevent the current accumulation of claims from different
agencies with differing laws, she said in an interview with the news
magazine "Focus". The politician was giving her reaction to the discussion
about excessive interim payments to former government members. Mrs.
Vollmer proposed that a new law should be drawn up to accept the highest
acquired benefit claim. All other claims should then be disregarded.
Up until now it has been possible to obtain financial support from the
government, parliamentary councils, and private sources simultaneously.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-6>
<H1>
Celebrations in honor of Melanchthon's 500th birthday
</H1>
A special church service marked the start of celebrations in
honor of the 500th birthday of reformer Philipp Melanchthon. Speaking in
Bretten, near Karlsruhe, the chairman of the Protestant church in
Germany, Mr. Engelhardt, said that Melanchthon's teachings still have a
great relevance to present day life. The archbishop of Freiburg, Mr.
Seier, stated that if people had followed Melanchthon, the division of the
church would never have occurred. Philipp Melanchthon was born in Bretten
in 1497. He taught at the University of Wittenberg and devoted much of
his time to the renewal of the school system. In Wittenberg he was one of
the people who paved the way for the Reformation.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-7>
<H1>
Union of Journalists concerned about lower standards in journalism
</H1>
The Union of Journalists views current developments in
journalism as increasingly shallow and populist in nature. The task of
checking those in power is perceived as less and less important, said the
chairman of the Baden-Wuerttemberg branch of the Union, Mr. Geibl.
Nowadays, only profits count, rather than the task of providing
information for the development of informed opinion amongst the
population. The consequences are: hasty publishing, the spreading of
half-truths as a result of insufficient research, cutting corners, and
producing an all-purpose blend of entertainment and information. The
German Union of Journalists fears that the media are losing credibility
as a result of these developments.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-8>
<H1>
Spanish truck drivers' strike also affects VW
</H1>
As a result of the Spanish truck drivers' strike, overtime
shifts were cancelled at VW this weekend. 1,500 workers at the main plant
in Wolfsburg were affected. Due to the blockade, components for the Polo
and Golf could not be brought across the Spanish border. Last week Opel and
Mercedes Benz also had to cut back their production because of the truck
drivers' strike. One and a half weeks after the border blockade began,
there is still no end to the dispute in sight. The Union of Haulage
Companies today rejected the offers put forward by the government. Amongst
other things, they are demanding a reduction in the price of diesel and a
lower retirement age for truck drivers. Spanish taxi drivers are also
planning a strike for tomorrow.

<DOC de-news-1997-02-16-9>
<H1>
Drinking water in Oberkochen polluted
</H1>
Bacterial pollution has been detected in the drinking water
supplies in the region around Oberkochen. According to the town council,
the popluation is not at risk. Oberkochen is now being provided with
water from an alternative source. When the pollution was discovered, people
were asked to boil all water before usage. The cause of the contamination
is probably the heavy rain falls of the past few days. It is possible that
the water treatment works became infected with animal excrement.

