<DOC de-news-1999-05-01-1>
<H1>
NATO continues heavy attacks
</H1>
NATO is continuing its attacks on Yugoslavia with the heaviest bombardment
so far.  Current objectives are to wipe out the military communication
networks of the Yugoslav army and to disrupt supply lines for fuel, spare
parts and food.  23 people have probably been killed during an attack on a
bridge in Kosovo.  An AFP spokesman reported that a bus was hit by at least
one missile.  Serb media denounced the action as a massacre on civilians.
NATO has not yet confirmed the incident.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-01-2>
<H1>
Lafontaine criticizes NATO
</H1>
Oskar Lafontaine---as an individual without tenure of a public office---gave
an address on May 1 in the Saarbruecken entertainment park "German-French
Garden."  The topics of his first big speech after his resignation centered
around the labor market and predominantly the war in Kosovo.  He said it was
a mistake to officially recognize the patchwork of small states within
former Yugoslavia.  In addition to that grave mistakes have been committed
during the last two weeks, Lafontaine continued.  They were the exclusion
of the United Nations and the exclusion of Russia from the negotiations to
end the Kosovo crisis.  According to Lafontaine, the NATO bomb attacks have
led into a dead end. At issue is no longer a face-saving strategy for NATO,
but to stop the suffering and agony of the people that was created by the
bombardments.
In the part of his speech regarding the labor market, Lafontaine demanded a
growth-oriented wage policy and the dismissal of the ideology of price
stability.
Lafontaine did not make any remarks critical of the federal government or
Chancellor Schroeder, but rather encouraged the government to continue on
its route.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-01-3>
<H1>
Union representatives praise federal government
</H1>
At the traditional May 1st Labor Day celebrations, the union leaders'
addresses focused on the Kosovo crisis.  At the main rally in Dortmund, head
of the National Trade Union Federation (DGB) Dieter Schulte admonished both
NATO and the Yugoslav leadership.  He called on President Milosevic to end
the mass murder and to stop his inhuman actions.  Otherwise there would never
be peace in the Balkans.  Secondly, Mr. Schulte urged NATO to exploit every
possibility to return to the negotiating table; for peace in the Balkans
requires a contribution from every party.  The people must be able to return
to their homes and must be able to live their lives in freedom and dignity,
Mr. Schulte reasoned.

<P>
On the traditional subject of Labor Day, there were some changes to report
from
the unions' standpoint. May 1st 1999 marks the first Labor Day celebration
since
1982 with the government again under social-democratic control and the first
joint
rally between DGB and DAG [National Union of Employees] since much longer
ago.  The main topic was hence an amicable one, namely the joining of DGB and
DAG, the National Trade Union Federation and the National Union of Employees.
After DGB and DAG had faced each other as opponents for almost 50 years, the
four service sector unions within the DGB together with the DAG want to lay
the
foundations for a joint organization before the turn of the millennium,
forming the
world's largest independent union with 3.3 million members.  DGB head Dieter
Schulte and DAG head Roland Issen not only exchanged niceties with one
another, but the federal government also received a fair share of praise.
 They
endorsed the government tax reform and the employment program for youths.
The government should not let itself be deterred by the complaints of
industry
and entrepreneurs. However, Schulte and Issen, both members of the SPD,
circumvented volatile issues such as taxing the so-called 630 Marks jobs
[McJobs] [presently tax-free] or legislative measures against pretense
self-employment.  These topics had recently evoked strong criticism in the
population.  The two union leaders, nonetheless, called for resistance
against
the dismantling of the social security network.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-01-4>
<H1>
Accident at May pleasure trip
</H1>
During a boozy May pleasure trip on a tractor-pulled carriage, four people
were seriously and fifteen people slightly injured.  The carriage had tipped
over in the Neckar-Odenwald district and buried the passengers.

<DOC de-news-1999-05-01-5>
<H1>
Opening of the Goethe National Museum
</H1>
After a twelve-week delay, the Goethe National Museum has finally been opened
in Weimar.  The building, which had been renovated for 18 million marks,
offers an unusual view of the Weimar classics.  Minister of Culture Naumann
said Goethe had lived on for posteriority so that his grandeur would inspire
each of us.

