<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-1>
<H1>
NATO increases aid for refugees
</H1>
In the face of the desperate situation of Kosovo
refugees, NATO and the European Union have increased the aid they are
offering. The NATO Council met with representatives of the EU countries to
coordinate their efforts. The EU had previously declared its willingness
to accept up to 100,000 Kosovo refugees. German Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder, in his capacity as President of the EU Council, made that
assurance to the government of Macedonia. The United States and Canada
also pledged their support. Turkey offered to take in up to 20,000
refugees; Germany 10,000; Norway 6000; and the United States 20,000. The
government of Greece has set up four refugee camps in the central part of
the country and on the Peloponnesian peninsula, capable of sheltering 6000
people. However, such announcements do nothing to ease the situation of
the refugees in camps like the one at Blace tonight, where 60,000 people,
some exhausted, sick, and desperate, face another cold night in the open
air. Doctors on the scene are warning of a wave of influenza which began
spreading among the refugees today.
<P>
The German Armed Forces, meanwhile, have initiated their flights of aid
for the refugees on a large scale. The first three aircraft took off early
this morning. Together with Dutch soldiers, German personnel also prepared
a camp for the displaced in Western Macedonia. NATO aircraft flying in aid
materials are supposed to be flying out refugees as early as this evening.
However, the air corridor has not yet been able to be established.
According to the responsible coordinator in the Macedonian government, the
designated aircraft could not begin the mission because so far none of the
countries willing to accept the refugees had issued landing permits. Only
after that could refugees be brought from the camp at Blace, on the
Macedonian-Yugoslav border, to the airport, a trip of about three hours.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-2>
<H1>
Schily: taking in refugees is measure of last resort for EU
</H1>
German Internal Affairs Minister Otto Schily has described the acceptance
of Kosovo refugees in the countries of the EU as the last of several
possibilities for aid. Following a visit to Albania, Schily said that
on-site aid was the first priority. On an ARD television news program,
Schily said "We would, if it became necessary, obviously grant that kind
of aid too, but all of the EU Internal Affairs Ministers are agreed that
aid at the scene must have priority. Because it can be delivered most
quickly there, because it ultimately involves the least effort, and
because it is necessary that the people be able to expect a return to the
homes they have been driven from as soon as possible."

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-3>
<H1>
US wants to send Apache helicopters into Kosovo
</H1>
Washington DC. The United States wants to send its Apache attack
helicopters into Yugoslavia. The Security Advisor to the White House,
Sandy Berger, made the official announcement this evening. The low-flying
aircraft are considered a most effective weapon for destroying tanks.
However, according to military sources, its deployment carries grave risks
for the crew aboard. Burger said the move did not mark the beginning of an
extended ground engagement in the war.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-4>
<H1>
War in Kosovo central topic in Pope's Easter address
</H1>
The war in Kosovo was a central theme in the Pope's Easter address
today. In front of more than 100,000 people at St. Peter's Square in Rome,
the head of the Catholic Church condemned the mass expulsion of people in
the Balkans. John Paul II appealed directly to Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic to open a humanitarian corridor in Kosovo to allow the delivery
of aid materials. Amid the applause of the faithful, the Pope said "Peace
is possible, peace is a duty. Peace is the pre-eminent responsibility of
everyone". He also said the diabolic spiral of revenge and senseless
fratricidal conflicts must finally be broken. Earlier, the Pope also
recited the "Urbi et orbi" blessing and Easter greetings in 61 languages.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-5>
<H1>
Easter marches and peace rallies continue
</H1>
In the shadow of the war in Kosovo, Easter marches and peace
rallies were continued today. Vigils and protests occurred in many cities
throughout Germany. A joint German-French Easter march began in
Strasbourg. Participants called for an immediate end to the NATO attacks,
and new peace negotiations. The movements attracted bigger crowds than in
past years, but participant numbers were still relatively low.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-6>
<H1>
Gas explosion in Aachen apartment building
</H1>
A gas explosion in an apartment building in Aachen this afternoon
seriously injured at least 11 people, including 4 children. Emergency
response personnel are still searching for two missing people. The
building was home to 16 people in all. According to police, the entire
front of the building collapsed after the explosion. The roof is also in
imminent danger of collapse. The cause of the explosion is not yet known.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-7>
<H1>
Short-circuit stills ICE trains between Berlin and Hanover
</H1>
A short-circuit disabled InterCity Express trains on the
route between Berlin and Hanover for two and a half hours today. ICE rail
traffic was rerouted over Braunschweig and Magdeburg. The cause of the
disruption: an ICE train had damaged the overhead electrical power lines
over 3 kilometres of track.

<DOC de-news-1999-04-04-8>
<H1>
Davis Cup: Germany defeated by Russia
</H1>
Birmingham, England. Until today, the German Davis Cup team was ahead of
Russia 2:1; today it ran out of steam. Neither Tommy Haas nor Nicolas
Kiefer had a chance against their quicker Russian opponents today. Yevgeny
Kafelnikov, showing no sign of fatigue after his double match yesterday,
beat Haas in only an hour and a half, in three straight sets. Kiefer
subsequently put up a good fight, but in the end succumbed to the intense
pressure that Marat Safin put him under from the start.

