<DOC de-news-1998-01-30-1>
<H1>
Iraq crisis: Mr Kinkel wants to leave no stone unturned
</H1>
Foreign Minister Kinkel said that he was for leaving no stone unturned in
order to reach a solution of the Iraq-crisis, without resorting to force.
Today Mr Kinkel was briefed by the UN's chief-inspector, Mr Butler, about
intelligence the team had gathered as far as Iraq's weapons were concerned.
Germany's position had not changed at all, even after Mr Butler's visit.
After extensive talks with Mr Butler, Mr Kinkel said: "We share government's
opinion that everything, and I mean absolutely everything, has to be tried
to solve this recurring problem in the political and diplomatic arenas. If
this won't work, we agree that military action cannot be ruled out."
<P>
Mr Kinkel as well as Mr Butler appealed to President Saddam Hussein to avoid
an unnecessary crisis, and grant the UN-inspectors access to his palaces.
Mr Butler: "If they let us in and cooperate, we can get this job done
and there wouldn't have to be a crisis."
<P>
According to Mr Kinkel, so far Germany had not received any requests for
assistance in case of a military operation, so speculations about an
eventual involvement of German armed forces would remain exactly that -
speculations.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-30-2>
<H1>
Debate about refugees
</H1>
The meeting of the EU's internal affairs and justice ministers came to an
end at Birmingham. Main item on the agenda was an action-plan to fight
illegal immigration into the EU by Kurds from Turkey and Iraq. Mr Kanther
took the chance to emphasize once again how he thought they could best be
be kept out. The EU should become a safety-union, according to Mr Kanther,
and that should be final. Meaning: stop the immigrants before they reach the
EU. Britain's minister Straw, who also presided the meeting, confirmed that
the problem had a high priority with all member countries.

<P>
He also talked about humanitarian responsibilities though. Mr Kanther,
however, had another axe to grind: in a European safety-union there was no
leeway for a 'transit-attitude'. He wanted to make sure that refugees get
registered immediately once they cross into the EU. If they do not have any
ID, fingerprints should be used instead, and data would be stored in a
centralised database. If German authorities were able to determine from where
refugees entered the EU, using the above system, the refugees would have to
return to these countries. At the beginning of the week the EU had already
passed a remit fighting the influx of Kurds, and Mr Kanther thought that had
been a big success. The UNHCR, the UN's organisation for helping refugees,
said the EU was doing well trying to also look into what caused the exodus of
Kurds, and possibly stabilising the regions concerned, though many refugees
do not have a choice other than crossing the border illegally

<DOC de-news-1998-01-30-3>
<H1>
Man who tried to blackmail Schwartau company under lock and key
</H1>
The Schwartau company can take a deep breath now: the man trying to
blackmail them into paying millions of marks in ransom-money by threatening
to poison their groceries, is under lock and key. They will, however, have
a hard time getting any damages out of the defendant: as he claimed
himself, he did what he did because of an acute lack of the folding stuff.

<P>
The defendant is a 48-year old engineer from Ingolstadt, and police and the
public prosecutor agree that he was the blackmailer. Last morning police
from Luebeck and Bavaria impounded important evidence. Meanwhile the man
admitted he had been the only one to plan and commit the crime. He was
arrested and will be transferred to Luebeck for further interviews. Police
had tracked him down after an attempt to hand over the ransom-money, after
investigations had also included Hungary and Austria. Based on what the
defendant had said, police take it that there are no more spiked jars (of
jam and marmalade) in the shops. Apart from that, they had never been a
real health-risk to consumers, as there had been very little poison in the
jars impounded in Schleswig-Holstein, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and
Hamburg.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-30-4>
<H1>
Neckarwerke electricity supplier to axe 1150 jobs
</H1>
Electricity supplier Neckarwerke wants to make 1150 staff
redundant over the next years, but this would only happen through natural
attrition, according to the company. This process might be sped up in case
staff opted for early retirement or part-time work/retirement. The company
resulted from last year's merger of Neckarwerke Esslingen and Technische
Werke Stuttgart. At the time the new company had 5,400 staff.

<DOC de-news-1998-01-30-5>
<H1>
Traffic Council asks for total ban on alcohol for young drivers
</H1>
The German Traffic Council asked for a total ban on alcohol for
holders of learners' drivers-licences and young drivers. This could possibly
lower the above-average number of accidents by 18- to 25-year old drivers.
According to the Council, the 'probationary period' (restricted licence)
for new drivers should also be raised from currently two to four years.

