<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-1>
<H1>
Strategy meeting of the Green Party
</H1>
In the opinion of Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, the Green
Party has to put European politics in the center of its foreign politics.
During the meeting, Mr. Fischer defended  the government's actions in
Kosovo. At the same time the Foreign Minister encouraged his party to
show more self esteem. Mr. Fischer asked if the Green Party themselves
are not convinced of what they have achieved, how were their voters
supposed to be convinced of the party. The Green Party has to show the
will to fight and attack opponents in the state parliament elections next
Spring, he continued. Mr. Fischer asked his party not to diminish the
successes of the government. The red-green coalition made mistakes, but
there is no reason to hide what has been achieved. For example, child
benefits have been raised, the reform of the citizenship law will allow
one million people to receive a German passport, and finally, there would
not be an eco-tax without the Greens. Nevertheless, the coalition
partners are walking around like beaten dogs, the Foreign Minister
criticized, saying that he had no patience for that. Of course, given the
distribution of power within the red-green coalition, realism is in
order. The purpose of this strategy meeting was to allow the Green Party
to start discussion on a new party program.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-2>
<H1>
Bribary affair
</H1>
Former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl considers the bribery affair
concerning the former Treasurer of the Christian Democratic Party (CDU),
Mr. Kiep, as a campaign targeted against his party because it is gaining
strength again. Mr. Kohl told the weekly newspaper "Welt am Sonntag" that
it is an attempt to draw attention away from the failings of the present
government. At the same time he denied claims that bribes changed hands
during the shipment of tanks in 1991. The Social Democratic Party (SPD)
had announced earlier that they will summons Mr. Kohl to appear before
the planned Committee of Inquiry. SPD Member of Parliament, Mr. Hofmann,
said in an interview that it is a contradiction in terms that Mr. Kohl as
CDU President of many years could have "allowed Mr. Kiep just to do
whatever he wanted". He added that Mr. Kohl had always been interested in
the nitty gritty of his party, and that was no different in regard to
money. CDU President Mr. Schaeuble said, he has no reason to doubt that
what Mr. Kohl said is true and that Helmut Kohl knew nothing about the
affair.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-3>
<H1>
Splinter mines
</H1>
According to a report by the newspaper "Frankfurter
Rundschau", the Bundeswehr (German army) is in possession of 88,000
splinter mines. These are technically different from the forbidden anti
personnel mines, but the effect is similar. The mines are triggered by
sounds, and only mines that are triggered by touch are banned
internationally. In a letter to Chancellor Schroeder, foreign aid
organizations have demanded that the Bundeswehr should destroy the mines.
The Ministry of Defense has now confirmed that the Bundeswehr has these
mines. They were intended to be used against starting airplanes, a
speaker of the Ministry said and that therefore, the ban against anti
personnel mines had not been undermined. The Ministry of Defense is of
the opinion that the mines are necessary for the defense of the country.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-4>
<H1>
Future of Holtzmann corporation
</H1>
In Frankfurt, decisive bank talks on the fate of construction
giant Holtzmann have started. The board of the ailing company and
creditor banks are discussing financial aid for the corporation. With
loans of 2.4 billion Marks that have surfaced surprisingly, Holtzmann is
overly indebted and needs financial aid of similar proportions. Holtzmann
President of the Executive Board Mr. Binder had declared that if the
talks do not bring a breakthrough, his company will file for bankruptcy
tomorrow. Along with 17,000 Holtzmann jobs in Germany, up to 40,000 jobs
with subcontractors and suppliers would be in jeopardy.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-5>
<H1>
Battle for Mannesmann
</H1>
The President of the Mannesmann Executive Board, Mr.
Esser, regrets that the battle for his company has become political. In a
newspaper interview, Mr. Esser criticized the decision of the President
Mr. Gent of Vodafone to involve British Prime Minister Tony Blair. This
was a incorrect of Mr. Blair and incorrect of Vodafone, he said. Mr.
Esser also rejected the comments of German Politicians saying that
national pathos does not fit our time and it does not fit the strategy of
Mannesmann. What is important is that Mannesmann has better chances
without Vodafone. German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder as well as other
leading German politicians had criticized that the British mobile
telephone company Vodafone wants to buy out the Duesseldorf company
against its will. Hostile takeovers destroy company culture, Mr.
Schroeder said.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-6>
<H1>
Disciplinary proceedings against leading government official
</H1>
A leading official of the German press bureau is facing
disciplinary proceedings because he wrote a theater play about national
politics. German Chancellor Schroeder and former Party President Oscar
Lafontaine appear in the play written by former SPD Member of Parliament
Wallo, . The theater "Berliner Volksbuehne" is considering presenting it.
Mr. Wallo has defended his work saying that even for government officers
there is freedom of expression.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-7>
<H1>
Burglary at Sachsenhausen memorial
</H1>
Two burglaries have taken place at the concentration camp
memorial Sachsenhausen. Unknown perpetrators stole jewelry made by
concentration camp prisoners. The burglars forced their way into two
barrack, kicked in the doors and smashed the glass exhibition cases.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-8>
<H1>
Oil tanker free again
</H1>
The oil tanker that ran aground in the Baltic Sea has come free
again. The ship loaded with 60,000 tons of oil had been stranded on a
sand bank between the Danish town of Gedser and the peninsula Darss near
Rostock.

<DOC de-news-1999-11-21-9>
<H1>
Cemetery devastated
</H1>
Unknown perpetrators have devastated a cemetery in Ulm. The
destroyed the ornaments of 209 graves. Police are investigating.

