<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-1>
<H1>
RAF terrorist sentenced to life in prison
</H1>
RAF terrorist Birgit Hogefeld has been sentenced to life in prison
for murder. The Frankfurt Higher Regional Court found the 40-year old woman
responsible for the death of three people. The judges were convinced that
Hogefeld participated in the bomb attack on the U.S. air base at the
Frankfurt airport in 1985.
A young GI was murdered the day before the attack, which the RAF cynically
justified by saying they needed his I.D. to access the grounds the following
day.
The court also found that the terrorist was involved in the failed attack on
Tietmeyer, the current president of the Central Bank.
Hogefeld was acquitted of the June 1993 murder of a GSG 9 official in the Bad
Kleinen train station.
Overall, the judges found the guilt particularly severe, which means the
sentence will not be automatically reviewed after 15 years.
The defense said they would appeal.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-2>
<H1>
Financing of 1997 budget debated
</H1>
The coalition parties still have not reached agreement in the tax
debate. The party and faction leaders of the CDU, CSU and FDPdebated the
financing of the 1997 budget and tax issues such as the solidarity surcharge
for three hours this morning in the Chancellors Office. They then recessed
until this evening. The Union and FDP expressed assurance that the coalition
was not in danger.
The FDP insists that the solidarity surcharge decrease by two percentage
points in 1998. Since the Union rejected this proposal just yesterday, a
final solution is not expected today.
No progress was made in the debates on the 1997 federal budget, either.
Actual spending cuts will be discussed at the end of the week when the next
tax estimates become available.
Scharping, head of the SPD, also demanded that Kohl make the fiscal policy
clearer. He demanded a clear legal decision to decrease the solidarity
surcharge. Sharping also called the federal budget unconstitutional again due
to the large deficit.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-3>
<H1>
Demirel visits Germany
</H1>
Federal Chancellor Kohl received Turkish President Demirel today for an
exchange of ideas. Demirel also met with representatives of the opposition
and Schmalz-Jacob, the federal governments commissioner for foreigners. No
details are known at this time.
Human rights and the Kurdish question are central political topics of the
official four-day visit by the Turkish head of state.
Just yesterday President Herzog demanded that Ankara recognize human rights.
This, more than anything, according to Herzog, is the prerequisite for
Turkeys increased involvement in Europe. Foreign Minister Kinkel, who will
meet with Demirel tomorrow, also expressed his support for reinstating the
payments from the European Union which were blocked due to Ankaras Kurdish
policy. In a newspaper interview, Kinkel stated that the agreement was
reached under difficult conditions and should now be fulfilled.
Hundreds of Kurds demonstrated that morning in the Bonn government district
against Turkeys persecution of their people.  The Greens and the PDS
appealed to the federal government to halt all military and police support
for Ankara.
In an official announcement, Turkey declared that they are a laicistic,
democratic state with a market economy.  Demirel also explained that Turkey
respects human rights and wants to practice them.  With regard for the Kurds,
who are fighting for their souvereignty, he added, however, that his country
must and will combat separatist tendencies.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-4>
<H1>
New motor vehicle tax postponed until April
</H1>
The new motor vehicle tax will probably not be implemented until next
April, not this week as originally planned by the Bundestag. The financial
experts of the governing parties want to clarify some technical details, so
the implementation date of January 1st is too early. The new motor vehicle
tax will be based on dangerous emissions.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-5>
<H1>
Basic contract reached between Post Office and Post Office Bank
</H1>
Per a basic agreement reached between the Post Office and the Post
Office Bank, the Post Office may close 4,500 of their 16,500 branches over
the next three years. After the year 2000, the Post Office may close another
2,000 branches. Mr. Boetsch, the acting Postal Minister, protested that this
means that the specifications that the nearest post office be located no more
than 2 kilometers away will not be met.
According to the German Postal Workers Union, the agreement puts more  than
20,000 jobs on the block. Union leader van Harn criticized this as
unacceptable and warned the parties responsible against a social powder keg.
After an 18-month debate, the Post Office and the Post Office Bank signed a
teller window usage agreement yesterday.  According to the details which were
revealed today, the Post Office Bank will pay the Post Office 1.1 billion
marks next year for the use of their teller windows. The fee decreases in
subsequent years.
The Post Office had originally requested 1.4 billion marks.  To make up for
the difference, the Post Office will receive 25% of shares in the Post Office
Bank.
The FDP objects to this, because it would give the Post Office too much
influence on the bank.  Liberals are therefore calling for additional talks.
 The price of stamps will increase in April, to 1.10 marks for a letter and
one mark for post cards.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-6>
<H1>
Disallowed welding work in the Duesseldorf airport
</H1>
Seven months after the disastrous fire in the Duesseldorf
airport, disallowed welding work was carried out once more. A Frankfurt
company apparently breached the guidelines and has received a warning,
according to a spokesperson for the airport.
Welding work caused the fire on April 11th in a departure area that killed 17
people.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-7>
<H1>
Southwest Metall employers willing to compromise
</H1>
The Southwest Metall employers are willing to compromise on the
issue of sick pay, although they want to offset the difference with vacation
and Christmas pay, and moderate pay increases.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-8>
<H1>
German Federal Railroad wants to sell property holdings
</H1>
The German Federal Railroad (Deutsche Bahn AG) wants to sell off
property holdings valued at 13.4 billion marks over the next 15 years. A
spokeswoman for the Bahn AG said they will offer about 3,000 parcels
totalling approximately 4,000 hectares that used to belong to the German
Federal Railroad and the German Reich Railroad.  The profits will be used to
pay off around 70 billion marks in old debts held by both railroad
organizations.

<DOC de-news-1996-11-05-9>
<H1>
Schuhmacher extends his contract with Ferrari
</H1>
Formula One driver Michael Schumacher has extended his contract
with Ferrari until 1999. The 27-year old, two-time world champions current
contract would have expired at the end of 1997.

