Will A.R. Rahman win an award, or two, at the Oscars on Sunday morning? The 81st Annual Academy Awards ceremony gets under way early morning on April 23 (Indian time) in Hollywood (Star Movies will beam the show live for the Indian audience from 6.30 a.m.).

Rahman has been nominated in two categories — for the best background score and the best song (both for Slumdog Millionaire).

“I hope he wins both the awards,” says Srinivas, one of the several new singers who was discovered or rediscovered by Rahman.

“Given the popularity of his work in Slumdog Millionaire, and the kind of other major international film awards it has already won, I reckon Rahman stands an excellent chance.”

Whether he wins the Oscar or not, Rahman has already done to Indian music what no musician has done before: he has made the popular Indian music known at the international level.

Our classical musicians have, of course, made us proud, but Rahman is the first Indian composer of popular music who has caught the imagination of the Western audience.

Jai Ho, a brilliantly composed chartbuster from Slumdog Millionaire, has become so popular that Pussycat Dolls, an American all-girls pop group, has remixed it. The song might very well fetch Rahman the Oscar for the best song.

“It’s a great song, beautifully composed, and it is well sung too, by Sukhvinder, who the world would not have heard, if not for Rahman,” says Srinivas.

The world would not have heard much of many other singers, including Hariharan, either.

“Imagine that a singer who could sing Uyire… (Bombay) with such perfection had totally been forgotten by music directors before Rahman,” Srinivas points out.

“I was mesmerised listening to the kind of music Rahman gave for Bombay and Roja; I wasn’t much more than a singer who would perform at small shows in my hometown of Thiruvananthapuram until I met Rahman. He made me what I am, and I am lucky that I could sing some great songs for him, like Oo la la… (Minsara Kanavu), Azhagame sugama… (Parthale Paravasam) and Chale chalo… (Lagaan).”