
PTI Anti-corruption activist Anna Hazare drinks water during the twelfth day of his fast against corruption at Ramlila Maidan in New Delhi on Saturday.
TOPICS
 Lokpal
crime, law and justice
corruption & bribery

laws

politics

Hazare says he will call off his 12-day-old fast today

In a historic gesture, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha unanimously resolved to endorse three key ideas that social activist Anna Hazare had insisted be included in the draft Lokpal Bill, now being considered by Parliament.

The ‘sense of the House' resolution adopted on Saturday night represented a stunning triumph for the fasting anti-corruption crusader who, just 12 days ago, had been arrested and jailed by a government fearful of the protest he was about to embark upon.

As news from Parliament reached Delhi's Ramlila Maidan, where thousands of protesters have kept vigil since August 18, Mr. Hazare was gracious in acknowledging this as a people's victory. Around half past nine, when a letter from Prime Minister Manmohan Singh describing the resolutions was handed over to him by Union Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, he announced that he would call off his 12-day-old fast at 10 a.m. on Sunday.

The relatively tame denouement followed hours of suspense, drama and some hard bargaining by Mr. Hazare's chief negotiators — Prashant Bhushan and Arvind Kejriwal — who proved equal to their counterparts in the government.

The Parliamentary motions — adopted by the traditional thumping of desks rather than a formal vote — were preceded by an extraordinary debate on the issues related to corruption triggered by the social activist whose grit, determination and folksy ways captured the imagination of the nation.

The identically worded resolutions, which were read out by Union Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee at the end of the debate, said: “The House discussed various issues relating to the setting up of a strong and effective Lokpal.

This House agrees in principle on the following issues:

(a) Citizens Charter,

(b) Lower bureaucracy also to be under Lokpal through appropriate mechanism,

(c) Establishment of a Lokayukta in the States;

And further resolves to transmit the proceedings to the Department-related Standing Committee for its perusal while formulating its recommendations for a Lokpal Bill.”

Barring the influential Yadavs, Lalu Prasad and Sharad — who questioned the propriety of Parliament discussing issues raised by what they said was a section of civil society that did not represent all segments of the people — members cutting across political parties broadly endorsed Mr. Hazare's anti-corruption agenda and the specific demands he was making of the Lokpal.

Mr. Mukherjee, drafted in as the Prime Minister's interlocutor in the last stages of the crisis, set the tone for a discussion with a suo motu statement summarising the sequence of events on the dialogue between Team Anna and the government. He also drew attention to the Opposition BJP's initial reluctance to grant any legitimacy to the civil society initiative.

Seeking a sense of the House, Mr. Mukherjee posed a series of questions for consideration. They centred on the three outstanding issues that Team Anna insisted would make all the difference between a toothless, ineffective Lokpal and one that could address the ordinary citizen's concerns abut corruption.

After nearly eight hours of separate discussion in both Houses, Mr. Mukherjee told MPs that there was consensus in principle on the issues of a citizens charter, inclusion of the lower bureaucracy under the Lokpal and the establishment of Lokayuktas in the States.

Though Team Anna had hoped for a formal vote, in part to be able to identify those MPs who opposed these provisions, the government stuck to the proposal the Prime Minister had made on Thursday in the Lok Sabha: that Parliament debate the issues and forward the details of its deliberations to the Standing Committee currently examining the government's Lokpal Bill.

Mr. Mukherjee told the MPs not to be bogged down in the nitty-gritty of procedures and was at pains to emphasise that the extraordinary move was to avoid an impression of an apparent conflict between civil society and Parliament.

In his opening statement the Minister acknowledged that the specific issues raised by Mr. Hazare were important and deserved serious consideration. But he added a caveat that the government might well fall back upon in the weeks and months ahead: “In case a consensus emerges at the end of the discussions, the Standing Committee will, in the course of its deliberations, take into account their practicability, implementability and constitutionality.”

‘It is people's day'

Reacting to the developments, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former West Bengal Governor, said: This is Anna Hazare's moment and Parliament's hour. But the day belongs to the people of India who have woken our polity from amnesia. Even three months ago it would have been unthinkable that Parliament will say and do what it has done so handsomely today. And just as the RTI campaign led by Aruna Roy has made RTI an Act that is used every day, we should look forward to the Lokpal campaign led by Anna Hazare to give us an Act and beyond it, a comprehensive mechanism that glares corruption in all its forms into retreat. 