NEW DELHI: Wearing black bands and shouting slogans, a large number of college students on Tuesday held a protest rally here at Jantar Mantar demanding justice for Jessica Lal.

Determined not to ease the pressure on lawmakers and enforcers, the students marched to Parliament Street and also submitted an eight-point memorandum and petition signed by them at the offices of the President, the Prime Minister and Congress president Sonia Gandhi.

Claiming that the fight was not just for Jessica but for the benefit of the many voiceless people in the country, the students said they wanted to make sure that the Government at no point of time feels that it can take the public for a ride.

Also participating in the protest march were students' group Aviral and Surya, a private company that is extending support to the "movement'' by distributing tattoos stating `Justice for Jessica'.

"Our fight is not just for Jessica but also for several victims like her. We are here to demand a change in the law that allows criminals to go free,'' said a student Dhruv Suri.

"It is extremely demoralising to see such palpable abuse of the criminal justice system in the country. Through our memorandum we propose that trial of such sensitive cases should be conducted within a time-bound framework, victim must be given the right to appeal and the family members should have representation. We also suggest that compensation be awarded to the family of the deceased on account of the mental pain, agony and harassment they have suffered during the trial and that judges also play a more appropriate role in the interests of justice,'' said a student and member of Aviral, Ravi Pathak.

Speaking about his company's involvement with the ``movement'', Surya (India) general manager Virat Mohan said: ``We have developed a domain www.justiceforjessica.com where people from all across the world can register their voice. The response to the site has been overwhelming. After its launch on March 4, more than 10,000 people have already registered themselves on the site for the cause.''

Our aim is to unite 1 million voices to be a part of this mission for justice,'' he added.