NEW DELHI: Delhi Police Commissioner K.K. Paul on Tuesday said any witness coming forward in connection with the Jessica Lal murder case would be accorded full protection. He also indicated that the reasons for witnesses turning hostile earlier were other than lack of adequate protection.

Talking to media persons in the evening, Dr. Paul said: "We assure that any witness coming forward in this connection would be accorded complete protection."

He, however, added that witnesses do not turn hostile only because they lack protection but there could be "other temptations" as well. "Even earlier, those who asked for police protection were given security," said Dr. Paul. Asked if those who turned hostile were also among the ones given security, Dr. Paul said he did not remember.

To another query, Dr. Paul said hiding the identity of the witness to protect him or her was a matter of debate. "But protection of eye-witnesses is a matter for concern for all of us," he said.

The Police Commissioner also sought to clarify that no action could be taken against investigating officers after it came to light that there might have been some misconduct on their part as the case had reached the trial stage. "This came to light only two years after the incident. I was asked to look into the case as I was not associated with its investigation and was also not in Delhi when the incident occurred. However, it was difficult to take any action against the officials of the investigating team as the case had reached trial stage and would have affected the case adversely," said Dr. Paul.

He also reiterated that the police were examining the grounds for appeal and that the director of prosecution was being consulted for the same. On the issue of re-investigation in the case, Dr. Paul said it was for the court to decide.

For the time being though the priority for the Delhi police is to prepare the report as directed by the Delhi High Court that took suo motu notice of the acquittal of all nine accused in the Jessica Lal murder case. Earlier, in an interview to an English news channel, Dr. Paul also reportedly assured the family of Jessica Lal that the mistakes of the past would not be repeated. 