Legal Correspondent

Argument of media glare will not hold water: counsel for Neelam Katara

Vikas fears fair hearing will not be possible in Delhi: counsel Ashok Desai

“For, media are prejudiced and conducting a parallel trial”

New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by Vikas Yadav, sentenced to life imprisonment in the Nitish Katara murder case, seeking transfer of his appeal from the Delhi High Court to any other High Court.

“There is no merit” in the plea, said a Bench consisting of Justices Dalveer Bhandari and H.S. Bedi.

The prosecution case was that Vikas Yadav and his cousin Vishal had abducted Katara from a marriage party in Ghaziabad on the intervening night of February 16-17, 2002. His body was later recovered from a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district. Katara was killed by the two accused, as they did not approve of Vikas’ sister Bharti Yadav’s growing proximity with him.

A trial court in Delhi awarded life imprisonment to the two, and Vikas’ appeal in the Delhi High Court was directed against this judgment.

Seeking transfer of the appeal, Vikas said the proceedings would be vitiated if it was heard in Delhi High Court due to media glare and trial by the media.

Senior counsel Ashok Desai, appearing for him, said that technically and legally the appeal should be heard only in the Allahabad High Court as the original offence was committed on February 17, 2002 within the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh. He said the transfer of the trial to a Delhi court did not extinguish the right of the accused to file an appeal in the Allahabad High Court.

Vikas feared that a fair hearing would not be possible in Delhi as the media were allegedly prejudiced and conducting a parallel trial against him.

Counsel Kamini Jaiswal, appearing for Neelam Katara, mother of Nitish Katara, said the Allahabad High Court had rightly refused to hear the appeal filed by the convict as the jurisdiction vested with the Delhi High Court. She said the argument of media glare could not be accepted as the media were present in other States also. 