 The Indians are riding a crest entering the summit clash. The side has grown in belief with situations throwing up heroes.

Looking back, the rousing partnership in adversity between an inspired Yuvraj Singh and a cool-headed Suresh Raina against an Australian side that was closing in for the kill at Motera was the turning point.

That was a game where the hunter became the hunted. This was the spark the Indian campaign needed. From here on, the home side would be different force.

There have been outstanding performers. The incisive Zaheer Khan has seamed the ball, swung it conventionally, reversed the sphere, changed his pace and harnessed the angles. And this champion left-arm seamer has delivered at different stages of the innings.

Yet, for most part of the league stage, Zaheer lacked support. The others were just not stepping up.

Crucial role

In this context, R. Ashwin's role has been crucial. Although the off-spinner did not figure against Pakistan, his control and variations enabled India to finally settle down as a bowling unit from the game against the West Indies at Chepauk. That was another defining display.

This has been a hard, demanding campaign for Mahendra Singh Dhoni and his men. Overcoming rough phases in the league, the side is finding the right answers at the business end of the tournament.

The Indians were humming in the arena on Wednesday in the big semifinal. The side came together as a pack; the bowling was tight and the fielding predatory.

Good fielding can be infectious. With Raina and Virat Kohli swooping on the ball in the in-field, less athletic men are putting in a greater effort too.

And the bowling is looking more potent. Stunning stops can lift sides.

Worthy opponent

Sri Lanka is a worthy opponent in the final in Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium on Saturday. India will enter the duel as favourite.

Yet, the islanders will be snapping at the Indian heels. Kumar Sangakkara leads a side that can create opportunities. It can also make the opposition pay for mistakes.

The Sri Lankans are unlikely to be as charitable as the Pakistani fielders, who put down Sachin Tendulkar on four occasions.

No side that gives the premier batsman of the other team so many ‘lives' deserves to win. Pakistan dug a hole for itself.

The chances are that the Sri Lankans would plan and pace their innings much better than Pakistan. Shahid Afridi's men never backed themselves on the chase.

Misbah-ul-Haq offered some resistance in the end but the dour defence that dominated the first half of his innings virtually put Pakistan out of the contest.

Even if Misbah desired to anchor the innings, he should have at least worked the ball for singles and twos so that the pursuit remained within manageable limits.

Strong top-order

Sri Lanka's strong top-order and its varied attack will test the Indians. But then, Dhoni's men would seek to slice through the rather vulnerable middle-order.

The islanders have injury concerns. Off-spin wizard Muttiah Muralitharan and mercurial all-rounder Angelo Mathews are battling worrying niggles.

Promising off-spinner Suraj Randiv and old warhorse Chaminda Vaas have been called in as cover. Sri Lanka would be keeping its fingers crossed vis-a-vis fitness issues.

The Sri Lankan bowling is a lesser threat without Muralitharan's bite and guile. And pace bowling all-rounder Mathews offers depth and balance to the side.

The Indian team-management, playing ‘horses for courses,' fielded three pacemen at Mohali. To their credit, Munaf Patel and Ashish Nehra bowled with heart, skill and accuracy.

But with Nehra now out with injury, Ashwin could return for the final where the surface is expected to favour the spinners. 