 The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Tuesday issued a clarification on the doubts surrounding the preparation and allotment of pitches being used in the Indian Premier League (IPL).

In a statement, IPL chairman Chirayu Amin said, “There have been several comments regarding the wickets on which the IPL matches are being played.

“The BCCI would like to confirm that its Ground and Pitches Committee sent recommendations for ground and pitch preparation to all host associations before the start of the IPL season. Included in the same was the advice that ‘the pitches should have good pace and consistent bounce.'”

According to Mr. Amin, the committee members visited a number of IPL venues both before and, where necessary, during the season and made appropriate recommendations, the priority being to ensure “competitive and quality cricket.”
No choice

The playing teams are given no choice of the pitch for the match.

“It is the curator, in consultation with the Ground and Pitches Committee chairman, who prepares the wickets,” insisted the IPL chairman in defence against growing criticism at the quality of pitches in the tournament.

In response to Rajasthan Royals skipper Shane Warne being unhappy at being denied the choice of pitch for the match here on Monday, Mr. Amin said, “The BCCI wishes to clarify that the wicket used in the match between Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals was as per the decision of the curator and the Ground and Pitches Committee. This decision was taken in the best interests of the game.”

Ground and Pitches Committee Chairman Venkat Sundaram, who was summoned to Jaipur following Mumbai Indians' displeasure at the state of the pitch on April 29, emphasised, “Our primary objective is to provide good playing surfaces, which will be fair to both teams. We have stressed that the best available conditions should be utilised at each venue.”
Wear and tear

The IPL is being played at the end of the Indian domestic season, and after the World Cup. Therefore, the main pitches are bound to have wear and tear.

“The extreme heat prevailing all over the country has also taken its toll. Hence, it becomes necessary to change the pitches in some cases, as good playing conditions will result in good cricket.”