Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh have geared up to take on the Mayawati Government on the latter's decision to hold the 2011 local bodies elections on party-less lines. In fact, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have decided to take the issue to the streets as the move, they fear, would provide a strong foothold to the ruling Bahujan Samaj Party in the elected local bodies ahead of the 2012 Assembly polls.

The Congress has decided to observe “black day” on June 24 in protest against the Government's decision with dharna and demonstration by the party workers in all the district headquarters. The day would be observed as a “chetavani divas (warning day). According to party chief spokesman Subodh Srivastava, the local MLAs, Corporators and office-bearers would participate in the day-long protest.

A memorandum addressed to the Governor, B.L. Joshi, would be submitted to the District Magistrates by the Congressmen.

Reiterating the Congress' opposition to the changes in the local bodies elections, the spokesman said the party favoured that the three-tier Panchayat elections should be held on party lines. The Panchayat polls are due to be held in September-October 2010. A final call on extending the protest would be taken after June 24.

Following the Mayawati Government's decision, there is a sense of despair in the Congress Party. The Congress, whose political fortunes in the State are on the upswing, is one party which is likely to be hit hard by the latest move. Party sources said that with Rahul Gandhi's advent the urban youth is being drawn towards the Congress and the local bodies' polls on party symbols was the best bet to test its popularity.

The BJP will observe a “black day” on June 26 in protest against the decision. The party's protest would be preceded by a march to Raj Bhavan by the party mayors on Wednesday where a memorandum would be submitted to the Governor.

Condemning the move, Lucknow MP and senior BJP leader Lalji Tandon likened the Mayawati Government's decision to the imposition of Emergency. Mr. Tandon said the move reminded the party of the Emergency days when civil liberties and autonomy of democratic institutions were curbed by the then Congress Government at the Centre and in U.P.

At a press conference in Lucknow, the senior BJP leader warned Mayawati that she would meet the same fate as that of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi after she had imposed the Emergency.

Mr. Tandon said there would be no let up in the BJP's protest against the move.

Keywords: Uttar Pradesh government, BJP, BSP, Mayawati