Chief Minister Mayawati on Thursday blamed the Congress-led UPA government for Uttar Pradesh's backwardness. Had a substantial portion of Central funds been given to the State on time, the BSP government would have achieved greater successes in public welfare and development measures, she said. She claimed that three years of the Bahujan Samaj Party government had been “very encouraging” on law and order and development fronts.

The Chief Minister, however, ducked a query on the Amethi visit of Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates at the behest of Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi. She held the successive Congress regimes at the Centre and in the State responsible for the abject poverty and unemployment. “The 38 years of unbroken Congress rule at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh following Independence witnessed the biggest migration of the poor from the State in search of livelihood elsewhere,” she said.

“Step-motherly attitude”

Addressing the media at her official residence here, Ms. Mayawati saw the Centre's “step-motherly” and “discriminatory” attitude towards Uttar Pradesh and accused the UPA government of hatching a conspiracy to keep the State “backward.”

The release of Rs. 17,000 crore Central funds had been delayed by the Centre, which not only stalled the ongoing development works but also led to an escalation in the cost of implementing the schemes, she alleged.

Development package

Ms. Mayawati deplored the Centre's silence on the Rs. 80,000-crore special development package demanded by the State and said not a single rupee for the package had been sanctioned.

Even as the Centre adopted a discriminatory approach, several schemes named after the “Gandhi-Nehru family” were thrust upon the State government, Ms. Mayawati alleged.

Task force report

Referring to the report of the Judicial Impact Assessment task force, she said the entire cost for the implementation of the Central Acts should be borne by the Union government. In this context, Ms. Mayawati referred to the Right to Education Act and other schemes and stated that the financial burden should not be transferred to the States.

Continuing drive

Stating that the BSP government in the last three years had achieved notable success on the ground, Ms. Mayawati claimed that her government had established the rule of law and the special drive against mafia and criminals was continuing. The government had also showcased the achievements of eminent persons by building memorials, parks and monuments in their names.

Two booklets — “U.P.'s discrimination and Central assistance,” and “The achievements of the Mayawati government” — were released by the Chief Minister.

Keywords: Bahujan Samaj Party government, Uttar Pradesh