VISAKHAPATNAM: The ‘Big bang’ was a pure research experiment taken up with the objective of revolutionising the world of technology, according to K. Sudhakar, an expert from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and one of the scientists who was involved in the ‘Big bang’ experiment.

He participated in a special meeting in GITAM University organised by GITAM Institute of Science here on Wednesday. Vice-Chancellor G. Subramanyam and principal N. Laxmana Das felicitated Dr. Sudhakar. They said that Institute of Science was also involved in frontline research in physics.

Dr. Sudhakar said that the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), also known as ‘Big bang’ machine and the world’s largest ‘energy particle accelerator’, intended to collide opposing particle beams of either protons, was expected to address the most fundamental questions of physics and understanding of the deepest laws of nature. The LHC was located in a tunnel 27 km in circumference and 100 metres beneath the Franco-Swiss border near Geneva. The pressure in the beam-pipes of the LHC was about ten times lower than that on the moon and the temperatures would be more than a billion times that at the core of the sun.

He said that the ‘Big bang’ tunnel was by far the most powerful piece of scientific equipment in the world and India was also involved in supplying material to build the tunnel and several Indians have played a key role in the whole project.

During the ‘Big bang’ experiment, large detectors around the LHC would track and analyse over 40 million proton-proton collisions per second and send all the data to a special computer network called the ‘Grid’.

The six experiments at the LHC would produce, after due filtering, 10-15 Petabytes of data annually.

A worldwide LHC grid, a global network of 60,000 computers made accessible to a few thousand scientists globally would analyse the data.

Data recorded during the 10-20 years of LHC life would be about all the words spoken by mankind since its appearance on earth.

Indian scientists’ role

Dr. Sudhakar said that about 2900 physicists, 184 institutions and 38 countries were involved in ‘Big bang’ experiment. He said that Indian scientists participated in building, installation, software analysis, Monte Carlo studies, physics simulation and analysis of Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) and A Large Collider Experiment (ALICE) and two of the four detector systems of LHC.

He said that India has contributed 4 million dollars to CMS in form of hardware contribution and a similar amount was contributed to ALICE detector.

The Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) has given 34 million dollars for LHC accelerator, he added. He noted that the participating countries would benefit from the technology that would be developed in the process and were therefore spending large amounts.

