 For K. Unnikrishnan, father of NSG commando Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan who was slain in a 26/11 terror attack in Mumbai, the execution of Ajmal Amir Kasab is not a matter to “rejoice over,” but a “legal necessity.”

“I don’t rejoice over the killing [of Kasab]. But it is a legal necessity,” said Mr. Unnikrishnan, approving the government’s decision to carry out the death sentence on Kasab.

Exercise restraint

Speaking to The Hindu, he described as “foolishness” the celebrations that broke out among sections of people in different parts of the country, particularly in north India. He appealed to people to exercise restraint.

Asked about the debate over the abolition of capital punishment, Mr. Unnikrishnan said the question was not relevant to the hanging of Kasab as the death penalty still existed in India.

He was against the government having spent a huge sum of money in keeping Kasab in jail and providing him security.

Kasab’s execution was necessary to serve as a “model punishment and warning.” Mr Unnikrishnan recalled the cold-blooded manner in which several people, including women and children, were gunned down in Mumbai.

“A pregnant lady was killed. I saw on television how an aged Muslim lady was wailing that she had lost everything in the carnage. I am not talking about security personnel, since they may have to die in the line of duty,” he said.

Mr. Unnikrishnan said Kasab was a pawn in the hands of “somebody else.”

“I am proud of Sandeep who fought with terrorists and gave his life for the nation,” he added.

We miss him: mother

Dhanalakshmi Unnikrishnan, mother of Sandeep, said the execution of Kasab would bring relief to the relatives of the victims and also all Indians.

She said, “It is a mixed reaction. Though I am happy about the decision, I am equally sad that Sandeep is not with us. We miss him everyday and try to remember him by preparing sweet dishes at home often, which were his favourite. We have not celebrated any festivals in the last five years except his birthday and today we have a reason to celebrate.” 