Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Chief Minister Narendra Modi sparred on Tuesday after the Congress leader invoked Mahatma Gandhi, as the Gujarat war hotted up on the last day of campaigning for the first phase of the Assembly elections.

The AICC General Secretary’s attendance in the Lok Sabha was also questioned by Mr. Modi after he lamented the short duration of Assembly sessions in Gujarat.

“If I have any ‘guru’ in politics, then he is Gandhiji,” Mr. Rahul Gandhi said at a rally in Jamnagar, making his maiden appearance in the poll campaign. “Gandhiji had one simple rule: that the voice of every Indian, for that matter the voice of everyone in the world, should be heard, whether that person is poor or rich, short or long. That person may be of any region, religion or caste, his voice should be respected,” he said.

Mr. Modi wasted little time in taking on Mr. Rahul Gandhi after the Congress leader’s comments on Gandhi. “If Rahul Baba is walking in Gandhiji’s path, why is Bapu’s one wish incomplete — to disband the Congress after Independence?” the BJP leader said on microblogging site Twitter.

On another issue, the Congress leader claimed that even the Opposition’s voice was curbed in Gujarat as the Assembly sits for just 25 days in a year and very often the Opposition leaders were “thrown” out of the House.

“For how many days does the Assembly session take place in Gujarat? For 25 days in a year. You say your vote is your voice and Assembly session takes place for 25 days in a year,” he said.

Countering the Congress leader, Mr. Modi tweeted, “Mr. Rahul Gandhi talks of respect for Vidhan Sabha but his own attendance in the Lok Sabha between May 2011-May 2012 was 24 out of 85 sittings.”

“If he had respect for Parliament, he would go for all sittings,” he said.

If Mr. Rahul Gandhi had so much love for the Vidhan Sabha, he should know that in Gujarat, the Assembly had debated issues even for days on end, but the attitude of the Congress has not been positive, Mr. Modi said. “After detailed discussions in the Vidhan Sabha, the files are sent to the Raj Bhavan for Governor’s signature,” Mr. Modi said, adding that the Raj Bhavan had been “converted to Congress Bhavan” by that party.

On Mr. Rahul Gandhi’s narration of Mahatma Gandhi sleeping on the floor at Anand Bhavan in Allahabad, he said, “It was Mahatma Gandhi’s greatness and his affection towards Nehru that he slept on the floor. But the real issue is that Motilal Nehru slept on the bed when his son was in jail. You are descendants of Motilal.” — PTI