As Chief Minister Narendra Modi faces his third consecutive test at the hustings, his tactics have not changed. He wants this election, like the last one, to be a referendum on Moditva, with six crore Gujaratis ranged behind him against the rest of India.

Godhra and the anti-Muslim pogrom that followed it in 2002 made him the face of Gujarati Hindu political identity: today, it may not be an election issue, but ever so often, it floats just beneath the surface in conversations, both in towns and villages. Mr. Modi’s admirers, while listing his achievements, never fail to point out that there has been “peace” for a decade — any question about the state of the cases is brushed aside. Gujarati pride and the communal divide — not the so-called Gujarat model and his vision of development — still remain Mr. Modi’s most potent weapons in his battle to retain power.

But after 11 years of Narendra Modi at the helm, there are signs of fatigue, and anti-incumbency against many sitting MLAs: this time, thanks to the entry of Keshubhai Patel’s Gujarat Parivartan Party in the electoral fray, Mr. Modi has not changed as many candidates as he would have wished to. And some Gujaratis have even begun to see through the dazzle of Vibrant Gujarat. For, even as the real estate sector booms, builders and contractors have a field day, and the Tatas and the Adanis shower praise on Mr. Modi, on the ground, the narrative is very different.

The State’s social indicators, in many cases, continue to be less than the national average; and even as government schools languish, the emphasis is on private educational institutions that are out of the reach of the common man. Village commons — grazing land — have been handed over to industrialists causing disquiet in rural Gujarat. And the super highways that crisscross the State and the gleaming malls in its big cities cannot, for instance, compensate for the impact of scanty rainfall in Saurashtra in the absence of any alternative arrangements by the government to address the severe water crisis.

Over the last decade, Mr. Modi has also emasculated the State bureaucracy: an IAS officer who retired recently told this writer, “District magistrates in Gujarat have been converted into event managers for his many melas — they are no longer capable of doing real work.” Indeed, when Mr. Modi’s acolytes say government servants don’t like working hard, he says, it actually means that they find it tedious — and expensive — mobilising huge crowds for the Chief Minister. There is, after all, no legitimate government head under which to list expenses incurred on buses etc to ferry people. “The distinction between government and party, in the process, has blurred,” says the officer. Little wonder when the rains failed in Saurashtra this year, there was no response from the administration.

If he has weakened the bureaucracy, centralisation of power — in Mr. Modi and a few key aides in Gandhinagar — has meant the BJP organisation, too, is not as strong as it once was. There is a show of unity, but the enthusiasm is lacking. At rallies, he repeatedly urges voters to think of him when they cast their votes, not the candidate. Having severed links with RSS leaders in the State, election-time samanvay baithaks in every constituency have been abandoned. At these coordination meetings, representatives of all RSS organisations would gather periodically to discuss the campaign’s progress to introduce correctives: this has now been replaced by Mr. Modi’s team monitoring each constituency from Gandhinagar.

Indeed, Gujarat is ripe for change: it’s just the Congress could have done much more to tap the dissensions within the sangh parivar and the discontent on the ground. Its inability to project a leader, infighting over the distribution of tickets and, in recent days, the crossing over of senior leader Narhari Amin to the BJP have all affected the optics. But the Congress’ choice of candidates has, on the whole, been fairly good, its advertising campaign — posing the aam aadmi against Mr. Modi — has been surprisingly effective. And it has had one big success — its ghar nu ghar scheme, the promise to provide housing for the urban poor, with registration in the name of the woman has created such waves that Mr. Modi has promised 50 lakh homes over the next five years. The Congress is hoping the GPP will win five to ten seats and cut into the BJP’s votes in another 10-20 constituencies and help it add 20 seats to its 2007 tally of 59 seats.

If Mr. Modi’s biggest plus point is the lack of an equivalent face in the Congress, it is also a fact that there are many in the State — especially women and young men in urban Gujarat — who worship him. Shortly after a 3D show in Padra, near Vadodadra, a group of young men — a schoolteacher, a petty businessman and a farmer — stand mesmerised after watching a “virtual” Modi. “It only shows how advanced we are in Gujarat,” the schoolteacher says with the enthusiasm of one who just acquired the latest I-phone. In a diamond bourse in Surat, traders and stockbrokers who deal in this precious gem surround me: “Modi is engraved in our hearts,” they shout, “he is a lion.” Indeed, it is among the urban middle class that he has the largest number of votaries. After delimitation, the number of urban seats has climbed from 60 to 73.

The Congress’ strategy is to contain the BJP tally to less than 100 (92 is a majority). It’s a high-stake election for Mr. Modi: to achieve his ambition of becoming the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate for 2014, he has to do more than scrape through — he needs to retain the 117 seats he now has.