Amidst high drama over five tense hours of vote-counting on election night, U.S. President Barack Obama won himself four more years to consolidate his legacy as the man who steered America through the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.

In securing his place in history, however, he will have to continue to face the challenges of a divided nation and Congress, as the popular vote in the highly divisive election was split evenly between him and his Republican rival, Mitt Romney, at 49 per cent.

After his victory was confirmed, Mr. Obama received a rousing welcome from a packed stadium of supporters in the heart of downtown Chicago. Jubilant but tired after a gritty campaign, the President pledged to build an inclusive, economically secure America for the middle class.

‘It doesn’t matter

who you are’

“I believe we can keep the promise of our founding, the idea that if you’re willing to work hard, it doesn’t matter who you are or where you come from or what you look like or where you love,” he said, adding “It doesn’t matter whether you’re black or white or Hispanic or Asian or Native American or young or old or rich or poor, abled, disabled, gay or straight. You can make it here in America if you’re willing to try.”

Preliminary indications suggested that voter turnout was lower this year than the breathtaking levels that it soared to in 2008. Although it peaked at close to 70 per cent in some States such as Wisconsin, it also dropped heavily in others, by around 11 per cent in Texas.

The biggest plunge by far, according to media reports quoting a study by American University, was in Eastern Seaboard States that were still recovering from the devastation in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, which caused major property damage and knocked out power for millions, thus disrupting standard voting practices.

Voting proceeded smoothly across most parts of the nation, although in Florida, where the votes are still being counted and Mr. Obama is said to have a lead, complaints of long lines and slow voting were frequent and frustrations mounted. Although no major incidents of voter intimidation were reported, at a Chicago.