With the results of the U.S.’s 57th presidential election out, the question on everyone’s mind has been answered. Democrat Barack Obama emerged the winner once again, and retained his position as President after winning 303 electoral college votes — well above the requisite 270 — thumping his Republican rival Mitt Romney, who could manage 206 votes.

Enthusiastic about the announcement of the results of the elections, most expats in the city were glued to their television sets for hours. U.S. expat and business consultant Christie Caldwell, who voted for Obama, was jubilant. She said she watched the results on television with her friends at a breakfast gathering held by Democrats Abroad — the overseas branch of the Democratic Party— at a restaurant in the city. Ecstatic, she hoped that Obama would complete all the good work he had started in his first term. She hoped that Americans would get some respite from the problems plaguing the U.S. economy, and that Obama would effectively implement his healthcare plan.

She added that she was fairly content with the foreign policy decisions that Obama had made during his first term.

On the other hand, some U.S. expats weren’t as thrilled about the results, but were equally hopeful of a secure future for their country.

Of these is Chief Managing Officer of 360 Degree Living, Sarah Khatri, who also watched the results on TV, although unlike Ms. Caldwell, she didn’t vote.

She said that as she was away from home, she couldn’t involve herself in this year’s elections.

Overall, she hoped that Obama could turn things around. She added,

“It is interesting that India was in favour of Obama, despite the fact that most of his policy decisions would be detrimental to the Indian economy, as he would make outsourcing of jobs difficult. I heard there was a party [in the city] to celebrate the win, but I chose not to attend.”

Accountant Andrew Anderson was struck with disbelief by the results, but hoped that both sides could work up solutions to the problems associated with the economy.

“It is clearly what makes American politics amazing. After the fight for control, both sides usually work together,” he said.