Six Indian-Americans are in the race for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives, with the latest polls and mainstream media saying that three of them have bright chances of winning.

Elections will be held for all 435 seats, representing the 50 U.S. states on November 6. The winners of this election cycle will serve in the 113th U.S. Congress.

Dr Ami Bera, the Democratic Party candidate from California’s seventh Congressional District, is said to have the best chances to win the Congressional elections.

This week, the Washington Post put his seat on a “Lean Democrat” status, meaning that he is closer to victory than ever before.

The independent Center for Politics at the University of Virginia had made a similar determination last week.

Pitted against incumbent Republican Dan Lungren, Bera has outraised his opponent. He raised more than USD 3 million as against Lungren’s USD 2.3 million.

The race for 7th Congressional District seat is one of the most costly campaigns, CBS news said.

So far only two Indian-Americans have been elected to the U.S. Congress. Dalip Singh Saund was the first Indian-American elected to the House of Representatives in 1950s; Bobby Jindal, now the Louisiana Governor, was the second.

Bera is followed by Republican young gun Ricky Gill, in California’s ninth Congressional District. Gill, just 25 is trying to unseat three-term incumbent Democrat Jerry McNerney.

Bera is endorsed by Bill Clinton; Gill is backed by top Republicans.

A weak Republican candidate in Michigan’s 11th Congressional District has brightened the chances of Democrat Dr Syed Taj.

Contesting from Pennsylvania’s Sixth Congressional District is Iraq war veteran Dr Manan Trivedi of the Democratic Party. Democratic Upendra Chivukula, whose election campaign has been hit by the Hurricane Sandy that devastated New Jersey, where he is the Deputy Assembly Speaker is also in the race. Jack Uppal, the Democratic candidate from California’s fourth Congressional District, is probably the weakest of the six candidates.