 It's been a rich haul for "Slumdog Millionaire" at the Oscars. MetroPlus gets some interesting reactions to the film's victory and A. R. Rahman's twin delight

How many times have you heard India’s name at the Oscars? There was Bhanu Athaiya’s costume design award in 1982 for Richard Attenborough’s historical film “Gandhi”. Then India’s greatest filmmaker Satyajit Ray was awarded an honorary Oscar for his contribution to world cinema in 1992, just weeks before his death. Some forgotten names include Apurva Shah and Umesh Shukla, special effects wizards from India, who had worked on “Ratatouille” and “Titanic” respectively, which went on to win the Oscar. Every year, movies were sent from India for the best foreign language film category, and only thrice since 1979 — “Mother India”, “Salaam Bombay” and “Lagaan” — were Indian films nominated.

“Slumdog Millionaire” may not have made a lot of money in the country, but as far as international awards go, the British drama film directed by Danny Boyle has had a winning streak. And India is shining. At the 81st Academy Awards, A. R. Rahman has won a double Oscar — one for Best Original Score for “Slumdog Millionaire” and the other for Best Song for the title track “Jai Ho”, sharing it with lyricist Gulzar — and Resul Pookutty has won it for sound mixing. There’s also “Smile Pinki”, a documentary on the life of cosmetic surgeon Subodh Kumar Singh of Uttar Pradesh that won the Oscar in its category, making sure India’s name was on everyone’s lips.
Time for celebration

Around 30 members of the A.R. Rahman fan group (an online Yahoo group) watched the Oscars live at a restaurant at Koramangala, in Bangalore. The founder member of the group Gopal Srinivasan was unfortunately away from the city on work. The group (with 80 members in Bangalore alone), meets up every time Rahman has an audio release or on the first day first show of any of his films. They decided this was a special occasion they wanted to enjoy together. “He’s done us proud,” says an ecstatic Radhakrishnan. S, who organised the Bangalore meet. “If India deserved an Oscar, it definitely had to be Rahman,” he said. Amidst much noise and joyous celebration that they shared with a member from Chennai and Hyderabad, the group was also thrilled with the way Rahman carried himself and the message he gave out at the Oscars. The group celebrated the win of the maestro by sponsoring lunch for children at the Rakum School For The Blind. They hope that once Rahman returns, they will be able to meet with him.