NEW DELHI: The First Information Report (FIR) registered against those responsible for destruction of evidence, fabrication and criminal conspiracy in the Jessica Lal murder case, that resulted in the acquittal of the nine accused, has opened up the possibility for the police to reinvestigate crucial aspects of the case to reach at the truth.

As the FIR -- which has been registered after consultation with the Additional Solicitor-General of India -- does not name any of the accused at this stage, all those associated with the investigation in Jessica's case would come under its ambit. "It means that the role of police officers directly associated with the probe, those supervising it and even those who carried out forensic examination of the evidence collected from the crime scene can also be examined," said a senior police officer here on Monday.

While probing the criminal conspiracy that resulted in the tampering of evidence and other "deliberate" lapses, it is learnt that the police would also investigate the role of the accused in the entire episode. "If required, the police would investigate the suspected links between the accused and officials related to the Jessica's case," said a senior officer. During investigation, the police can ask the officials in question to explain various lapses, including the non-recovery of Jessica's bloodstained clothes and the delay in securing the crime scene to collect material evidence, during the probe. The officials can also be asked to explain why they did not get the statements of any of the witnesses registered under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code, to make sure that they did not turn hostile during trial.

They can be questioned on why they did not book those who destroyed the evidence at the crime scene. An important question the investigating officer can be asked is why he sent the cartridges for forensic examination if the murder weapon was not recovered. Surprisingly, the police had collected the forensic report on the cartridges after the charge sheet in the Jessica case had been filed.It is learnt that on Monday, Assistant Commissioner of Police of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) M.K. Sharma, Inspector Raj Singh of EOW and Inspector Rakesh Dixit of Special Staff of the East Delhi police were included in the special team being formed to investigate the case. Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) U.K. Katna would select other members of the team soon.