 People in this budding metro have come out openly for a fair retrial in Jessica's case

The world celebrated the Women's Day on March 8. Media across the globe had come out with stories highlighting the new age jet-setting women and politicians read out pages showcasing the role of modern women who have to move hand-in-hand with the men towards development.But are we really practicing what we talk, write or speak? The recent acquittal of the nine accused in the Jessica Lal case is an eye-opener to the scenario.

Background

Jessica Lal, a Delhi based model-cum-bar tender was allegedly shot dead my Manu Sharma, son of Haryana minister Vinod Sharma, on the night of April 29, 1999, at a restaurant run by Delhi socialite Bina Ramani. Jessica was allegedly shot by Manu after she picked up an argument over pouring an extra drink after the legal time.After seven years of investigation and trial all the nine accused that include big wigs like Vikas Yadav, son of Uttar Pradesh politician D.P. Yadav, Shyam Sunder Sharma, son-in-law of former President Shankar Dayal Sharma, and Yograj Singh, father of Test cricketer Yuvraj Singh, were acquitted by the Additional Sessions Judge of a Delhi Court, SL Bhayana.

Public outcry

There has been a public outcry throughout the country. A couple of television channels have joined the human rights people to run a campaign for a retrial. In this aspect, this Metro has also not lagged behind. People have come out openly condemning the entire episode. Here are some of the reactions:

Nivedita

(Student St. Joseph's College for Girls)"This was not a hit and run case, nor a case where the killers were anonymous or unknown. This was neither a riot situation where murders are committed by faceless people. This was murder at close range, in a crowded restaurant, where everyone knew everyone else. But, from the every beginning I knew that she would not get justice, as the rich and powerful always find a way out. It is sad that the police who are considered to be the protecting force are the facilitators for the acquitted. It is murder of justice and there should be a fair retrial."

Ranjita

(Model-cum-software professional)"Power and money have overshadowed justice. First of all, what did Jessica do to get killed and secondly, why she should not get justice? Women are still subjected to injustice and the entire system is responsible for that. She definitely needs a retrial."V.S.K. Kaumudi(Commissioner of Police)In a well-guarded remark he said: "It is difficult for me to comment without knowing the facts of the case but in general it is sad when the guilty are not punished."Lisa(Journalism student, St. Joseph's College)"It was not a surprise for me. That's what has been happening. Marginalisation of the voiceless by the rich and powerful is a common factor in our country. If Bill Clinton can be punished for his wrong doings then why not Manu Sharma. Nobody has got the right to snuff the life out of anybody. The Legal System needs to be overhauled."V.S. Krishna(Secretary, Human Rights Forum)"The criminal justice system and the law of perjury need to be reformed. Witness protection mechanism has to be put in place. There is a perception not entirely unfounded that the law at large works for the privileged in tie-up with the police establishment. The shoddy investigation in Jessica's affair is a case in point. There are many such cases around the country where the rich get away with murder. People should take this case as a wake up call and go full steam for fair retrial."SUMIT BHATTACHARJEE 