NEW DELHI: The Delhi Government on Thursday defended the High Court judgment awarding life imprisonment to Manu Sharma in the Jessica Lal murder case, reversing the acquittal recorded by the trial court.

Making his submissions before a Bench of Justice P. Sathasivam and Justice Swatantar Kumar, Solicitor-General Gopal Subramaniam said “the order of acquittal recorded by the trial Court was clearly wrong and against the evidence on record. The High Court, as a court of `first appeal’, considered the evidence and held that the trial court was wholly wrong in not believing the prosecution witnesses.”

He argued that the High Court had also observed that the grounds which weighed with the trial court for not believing prosecution witnesses, could not be said to be legal, proper or based on evidence on record. There was no reason for the trial court not to believe evidence of prosecution witnesses Deepak Bhojwani, Shravan Kumar, Beena Ramani, Malini Ramani and other witnesses.”

Narrating the sequence of events on the night of April 29-30, 1999, the Solicitor-General said a party was organised at Tamarind Cafe inside Qutub Colonnade. It was a private party where certain persons were invited and liquor was served. Jessica Lal and one Shyan Munshi were in charge of the bar. The appellant Manu Sharma along with his friends came there and asked for liquor. Jessica Lal and Shyan Munshi did not oblige him since the bar was closed. At this the appellant purportedly got enraged, took out his .22 pistol and fired two rounds, first into the ceiling and the second at Jessica Lal, who fell down as a result of the shot which proved fatal and she died.

He said several persons witnessed the incident. Beena Ramani, who was present, stopped the appellant and questioned him why he had shot Jessica. She also demanded the weapon from the accused but he did not hand over the pistol and fled.

Taking into consideration the cumulative evidence, the High court came to the conclusion that the appellant was guilty and reversed the trial court’s order of acquittal, he said.

Arguments will continue on February 9.