 NEW DELHI: Brutally gang-raped by four men in a moving bus in South Delhi on Sunday night, a 23-year-old woman is now battling for life in Safdarjung Hospital here. The woman’s male friend was also assaulted, stripped and then thrown off the bus along with her near the Mahipalpur flyover in south-west Delhi.

While the police have rounded up six persons on suspicion of their involvement, they have impounded a bus from Noida suspecting it to be the one in which the crime was committed. The bus driver was also arrested on Monday.

The girl and her friend took an auto rickshaw to a bus stop in Munirka on Outer Ring Road after visiting a mall in Saket. There they boarded a “contract carriage” luxury bus going toward Palam at around 9.30 p.m.

The bus, which the police said had tinted glasses, had only four other passengers besides the couple. The police believe that the other passengers were acquainted with the bus driver and the cleaner.

“When some of the passengers passed nasty remarks at the girl, an argument ensued between them and her friend, who was beaten up with iron rods by the four men,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South Delhi) Chhaya Sharma.

The group then pounced on the girl, dragged her into the driver’s cabin where they forced themselves on her. They also robbed the two victims of their belongings before throwing them off the bus on National Highway 8 near the Mahipalpur flyover around 10.15 p.m., almost 6 km from where the couple had boarded the bus.

Shocked and numbed, the victims were barely able to raise an alarm when they were spotted by a security guard deployed at a nearby construction site, who immediately called up the police suspecting that something was amiss as they two had sustained injuries and were bleeding.

The police reached the spot and rushed the injured victims to Safdarjung Hospital where the girl is currently on ventilator support, the police said. According to sources in the hospital, the girl, who mainly received injuries on her face and stomach, was bleeding profusely when brought in for treatment.