Four persons who allegedly gang-raped a 23-year-old physiotherapy student in a moving bus and brutally assaulted her before throwing her out of the vehicle this past Sunday night have been arrested even as the girl’s condition deteriorated further in Safdarjung Hospital here on Tuesday.

According to hospital sources, her blood pressure has gone down and pulse rate gone up. She is still on ventilator. Her mother was allowed to see her on Tuesday while her father is yet to meet her.

The police have identified the accused as Ram Singh, the driver of the bus; his brother Mukesh; a fruit seller named Pawan; and Vijay, a helper at a local gymnasium. The driver’s helpers, Akshay Thakur and Raju, are absconding.

While Ram Singh was produced in a court which sent him to five days’ police custody, Mukesh, Pawan and Vijay would be produced in court on Wednesday.

Claiming to have cracked the case, Delhi Police Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the accused were on a joyride when they decided to make some extra money by allowing in passengers during off-duty hours and in that course picked up the girl along with her male friend. On the way, they brutalised her and beat up the boy before dumping her along with her friend in a semi-conscious state near the Mahipalpur flyover. The accused attacked the two with rods, seriously injuring them in different parts of the body.

Mr. Neeraj Kumar said that with the help of a CCTV camera installed at a hotel along the route the police were able to zero in on a white bus with the word “Yadav” written on the side. With the help of State Transport Department records, the police identified 370 such vehicles and zeroed in on the owner, Dinesh Yadav, in Noida. It was Mr. Yadav, who runs a travel agency and had rented out the bus to a private school in South Delhi, who told the police about his staff including Ram Singh and provided their details.

Ram Singh had first abandoned the vehicle at Rohilla Khurd in Uttar Pradesh to avoid detection after he had dropped the other co-accused at their homes. He brought the bus back on Monday morning to R.K. Puram when he was arrested by a police team which had been waiting for him.

“On seeing the police party, Ram Singh tried to climb down from the bus and flee but was apprehended by the police team after a chase,” said Mr. Kumar.

During interrogation, Ram Singh purportedly admitted to the crime and at his instance three of his accomplices were arrested.

Mukesh, who was driving the bus when the crime was committed, had fled to Rajasthan and was arrested there, said Mr. Kumar, adding that the other two accused are on the run and teams have been sent out of Delhi to nab them.

He said the accused had washed the entire bus clean to destroy evidence. The police nonetheless managed to lift forensic evidence from the bus with the help of experts.

Describing the incident as gruesome and shameful, the Police Commissioner said the force would seek a fast-track trial and maximum possible punishment for those involved in the crime. He also said that he would send a proposal to the Union Home Ministry seeking death penalty for the rapists.

Investigations have revealed that the accused had a drinking session and then decided to pick up passengers to raise money to buy more liquor. Before they picked up the victim and her friend, they had robbed another passenger, Ramadhar Singh, who they picked in R.K. Puram. They threw him out near IIT-Delhi on Outer Ring Road.