 The Central Vigilance Commission on Thursday said CBI was probing the alleged irregularities in coal blocks allocation in an independent manner and there was no pressure on the investigating agency.

“The investigation is transparent. CBI is probing the matter independently. We have not received any evidence so far of this kind (that CBI is working under pressure). We have not noted any thing of this kind,” said J.M. Garg, Vigilance Commissioner of the country’s top anti-corruption body.

He said the allegations of biasness against CBI will keep on coming.

“We have superintendence over CBI. We guide them on various anti-corruption related matters. CVC has its own mandate. Whatever allegations are being made against on CBI, it is sort of political. We will not be able to comment made by any political party,” he said when asked about allegations of biasness made by opposition parties against CBI.

CBI is probing alleged scam in allocation of coal mines on the direction of CVC. The agency had on September 4 registered five cases in connection with the alleged scam.

The Vigilance Commissioner said a report by CBI on the progress of probe on the matter is expected by this month end.

“CBI comes to us for a meeting every month. They have not yet submitted their report. They were to give a report to us but they have sought some time. A meeting is scheduled later this month then we will come to know about it,” Mr. Garg told reporters on the sidelines of a seminar in New Delhi.

He also suggested a study on the best practices adopted by various developed nation on allocating natural resources to avoid any conflicts.

“I personally feel in case we want to allocate natural resources to private parties then we need to have a mechanism where the natural resources are allocated in a transparent manner...We need to study best international practices and accordingly we need to develop a system where people’s good is considered. Auction should not be the only method, people’s good should be considered,” Mr. Garg said. 