Europe took a deep bow before Euro 2012 champions Spain on Monday as their historic title from a 4-0 thrashing of Italy was named “a divine delight” and “a delicious tyranny.” Spain’s short passing game, known as tiki taka, had been dismissed by some as boring in the earlier stages of the tournament and was renamed tiki takanaccio by some in reference to the ultra defensive catenaccio style of Italy in the past.

But inspired by Barcelona midfielders Xavi and Andres Iniesta, Spain let loose on Sunday in Kiev to win a Euro final by the biggest margin, and become the first team to defend a Euro title and take three big titles in a row following Euro 2008 and the 2010 World Cup.

“Spain’s delicious tyranny without end: the Furia Roja silences all critics in the final,” said Austrian paper Der Standard.

Switzerland’s Neue Zr Zeitung said: “A divine delight. No current duo celebrates the short passing game like Andres Iniesta and Xavi ... It is a divine delight to play football with this duo.” Greek paper Eleftheros Typos spoke of “football gods from Spain” and Ethnos titled “Magic Spanish night,” while in the Netherlands De Volkskrant spoke of “champagne football” and Algemeen Dagblad of “Spanish grandeur.” The Rzeczpospolita daily from tournament co-hosts Poland asked: “If this isn’t the best football team ever, who else should it be?” Britain’s The Sun struck a similar note but stopped short of a verdict.

“You cannot compare teams from different generations so it is useless asking if this side would have beaten the Brazilian team of the 1970s. But what you can do is look at their record which is unquestionable.

“And they can keep going. It will take an almighty effort for someone to knock them off their perch,” The Sun said, adding that Spain gave Italy “a master class” in the decider.

The doubts around Spain’s game also came because coach Vicente del Bosque let them play without a real forward for most of the tournament, with Fernando Torres coming from the subs bench most of the time -- and still became Euro 2012 top scorer.

“The rest of football still has no answer to the Spanish monopoly, which was beautiful, not boring, in a 4-0 win that even featured a goal from a striker, Fernando Torres,” said The Daily Telegraph, naming Spain’s possession game “beautiful sadism.” In Germany, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said that Spain “can sparkle even with the favoured line-up of del Bosque, 4-6-0,” and feared the worst for all other rivals for the upcoming years.

“Spain doesn’t know one way to success. Del Bosque can chose between a 4-6-0 and 4-3-3 in many variations. It took 44 years (from 1964 until 2008) until Spain could crown itself kings of European football (again), now it seems as if it has no intention of leaving the throne soon,” the FAZ said.

Keywords: Euro 2012, Euro 2012 soccer championship, Spain