Italy may have only won the European championship once, back in the summer of love of 1968. But the four-times world champions have always been a footballing force to be reckoned with.

This time, however, the Azzurri did not come into Euro 2012 as front-runners for the title.

An unfolding betting scandal back home, a disastrous 2010 World Cup campaign, and the retirement of many of its key players -- Gennaro Gattuso, Fabio Cannavaro and Alessandro Del Piero, to name a few -- all concurred to lower expectations ahead of the tournament in Poland and Ukraine.

But Thursday’s 2-1 defeat of mighty Germany, the result of what Italian pundits have unanimously described as “an extraordinary performance” in Warsaw, may have swung the momentum in Italy’s favour ahead of Sunday’s final against Spain.

“Now the most important match of the European (championship) is before us: the dream has only just begun. We will find the energy.

They (Spain) have also used a lot of it, on Sunday we will start evenly matched,” coach Cesare Prandelli said after the semifinal.

Prandelli, who refined his tactical skills as midfielder in the early 1980s under Italian guru Giovanni Trapattoni at Juventus, was asked to pick up the pieces after Marcello Lippi’s ignominious 2010 World Cup campaign, when Italy failed to reach the knock-out stages.

In just two years, he has rejuvenated the squad and expanded on Lippi’s attacking football mentality.

Andrea Pirlo, the playmaker genius, and Mario Balotelli, the maverick goal-scorer, may be the stars on the pitch. But Prandelli is the unsung hero on the sidelines.

“The thing that makes us marvel is the little time in which Prandelli has managed to create a team out of a group of excellent players with four stars (Mario Balotelli, Andrea Pirlo, Daniele De Rossi and Gianluigi Buffon): in such a short space of time Italy have displayed aggressive and intelligent football that has produced great games,” former Juventus winger Massimo Mauro wrote on Friday’s La Repubblica.

In an editorial for daily Corriere della Sera, football analyst Mario Sconcerti noted that in the long history of memorable clashes between Germany and Italy, this was “the first time that we played as if we were Germany.” And the merit goes to Prandelli, who “since the summer of two years ago, when around us there was nothing but rubble, has always expected the national team to play like a club,” with a clear game plan, Sconcerti noted.

Aside from his tactical prowess, Prandelli also deserves the credit for creating a perfect blend of wisely experience and youthful folly.

Handing the keys of the midfield to 33-year-old Pirlo, who was ditched by AC Milan only a year ago, may have been an easy decision.

Keeping the faith in Balotelli and Antonio Cassano, the inconsistent “bad boys” of Italian football, was not.

Italy will now try to stop reigning world and European champions Spain from making footballing history.

Ahead of the 1-1 draw in their group C encounter in Gdansk, less than three weeks ago, most pundits had stacked the odds firmly in Spain’s favour.

But after Thursday’s impressive performance against a team that was considered as the tournament’s other favourite, the balance may have shifted.

Arguably Italy’s biggest advantage, however, has been going into the tournament with modest prospects and without the pressure of having to win at all costs.

And once again, Euro 2012 has shown that it is always dangerous to underestimate the Azzurri.

“I have just one thing to say: be very careful when you talk about Italy,” was Prandelli’s message to Spain.

Keywords: Euro 2012, Euro 2012 soccer championship