The day is not too far when FIFA, the world governing body for football, would be forced to introduce goal-line technology to end controversies over disputed goals, said former Manchester United star Dwight Yorke in Mumbai on Thursday.

“There are additional referees on the lines now. But I think in future this (introduction of goal-line technology) will happen. Too much is at stake,” said the 40-year-old Trinidadian.

The debate over the need to introduce the technology started again following the controversy during the England versus Ukraine game at the league stage of the Euro 2012.

Ukraine’s Marko Devic’s shot seemed to have crossed the line before England’s John Terry cleared the ball, but the line official, the referee and the fifth official all missed it while TV replays indicated the ball had crossed the line before the defender had cleared it.

Thanks to the disallowed goal, England held on to their 1-0 lead and topped their group.

“FIFA will introduce it in the near future” felt Yorke speaking after launching the Mumbai leg of the Airtel Rising Stars initiative.

The Mumbai leg is to be held on August 4 and 5 as part of Airtel’s pan-India initiative covering 16 cities to choose 12 hand-picked under-16 footballers to attend a week-long training camp with the glamorous and highly successful Premier League club Manchester United at Old Trafford in England.

Yorke, a close friend of Trinidadian cricket great Brian Lara and a fan of the game, said that while racism in football was much less now than when he had started his career in the late 1980s, it has not disappeared totally.

“I have lived in England for 24 years. Football has moved a great way forward in rooting out racism. There are still some incidents but I am pretty sure FIFA is looking into it, it’s a serious issue,” he said.

Yorke expressed optimism that with the sort of talent hunt initiatives unfurled here and with growing popularity of the game in the country, India would be competing at the world stage in a decade or so.

“I come from a cricketing nation. If I can make it (into top level football), why not those talented ones from India? Football has caught on in India with the televised matches of the Premier League (English League), La Liga (Spanish League), Bundesliga (German league) and others.

“This (talent hunt) is a great opportunity for kids in Mumbai and India to fulfil their dreams. This is a platform to showcase their talent as well as get a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to visit Manchester United in England, interact with (club manager) Sir Alex (Ferguson) and other top footballers like Wayne Rooney,” he said.

“They can come back home and share their experiences with their friends. It’s a platform for Indian football to rise up. I feel in 10-15 years players from India would be represented in the world stage,” he declared.

Airtel’s Ramesh Menon refused to divulge the cost involved in the initiative, adding it would be an annual feature.

As per the plans, three players would be picked from each of the 16 cities and the 48 selected youngsters would be divided into four teams of 12 each and would be tested in parameters including physical attributes, skills, match situations and performance in actual matches to shortlist the dozen players for the week-long visit to Manchester United.

Keywords: Goal-line technology, Euro 2012, Football-initiative campaign