The Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday “chargesheeted” the Mayawati Government for misgoverning the State and pursuing anti-people policies.

The charge sheet in the form of a memorandum was submitted to the Uttar Pradesh Governor, B.L. Joshi at Raj Bhavan here by a BJP delegation led by the State unit chief, Ramapati Ram Tripathi.

Demanding appropriate action against the Government, the BJP has threatened to launch an agitation if its demand was not fulfilled. “We intend to go to the people armed with the charge sheet and will build public opinion seeking the dismissal of the Government”, Mr. Tripathi declared.

The U.P. unit president of the saffron party said at a Press conference that the charge sheet has been prepared after analysing the Mayawati Government’s performance. Mr. Tripathi accused the Government of undermining the constitutional bodies by violating their orders and patronising criminals and mafia, and held the Government responsible for “administrative terrorism.”

He charged the Government with the loot of the State Exchequer with projects being launched with the sole purpose of making money. Corruption has been institutionalised and it was impossible for the people to get their work done without bribing the “babus” and officials, Mr. Tripathi alleged.

Mr. Tripathi slammed the Government for booking the BJP workers in fake cases under the Scheduled Castes, Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities ) Act, the National Security Act and Gangster’s Act. Human rights violation, crime against women and artificial shortage of essential commodities were the other points in the BJP charge sheet.

Demanding a price of Rs. 300 per quintal of sugarcane for the growers, the U.P. BJP chief said the Government had played into the hands of the sugar mill owners and had left the farmers in the lurch.

Mr. Tripathi declined to comment on whether Kalyan Singh would be re-inducted in the party. “I have read in newspapers that he has parted company with Mulayam Singh and showed his keeness to return to the BJP”, Mr. Tripathi said.

Keywords: BJP, BSP, Mayawati, Mulayam Singh, B.L. Joshi, 