JAIPUR: India’s contribution to the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the gigantic scientific instrument installed in Meyrin village near the Switzerland-France border in Geneva district for re-enactment of the Big Bang collision, was mentioned twice at the inauguration of the LHC carried out in its vicinity on Tuesday.

Lyndon Evans, the project leader who talked about the LHC adventure in the presence of the Swiss President, the French Prime Minister and Ministers from various other countries, spoke of India’s involvement in the experiment over the past decade-and-a-half and the country’s contribution to manufacturing and testing of LHC components.

The Indian team from the Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre and the Saha Institute, Kolkata, IOP at Bhubaneswar and those from the Universities of Rajasthan, Panjab, Jammu and Aligarh and IIT-Bombay had all combined together to show great synergy with their multi-fold contribution to ALICE (A Large Iron Collider Experiment), it was noted.

The biggest experiment of all times had its beginning on September 10 when proton beams were successfully injected into the 27 km long accelerator more than 150 metres under the Swiss-French border. Unfazed by the setback the experiment received when a mishap occurred on September 19 due to a fault in the electrical connection, the scientists and engineers got together to repair the damage and replace the required equipment and also to adapt necessary precautions to avoid its recurrence. The re-commissioning of the LHC is likely to start soon after the spring in 2009.

Sudhir Raniwala, the Jaipur physicist who was part of the Indian scientists’ team which designed one of the Photon Multiplicity Detectors for the ALICE venture, informing The Hindu about the event from Geneva by Internet and on phone, said India had active participation in two of the four major experiments at LHC conducted by CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research).

“While the CMS experiment hopes to discern the origin of mass with participation from BARC and TIFR in Mumbai along with the Universities of Delhi and Panjab, the aim of the ALICE experiment is to search for a phase of matter, quark gluon plasma, which will shed light on the epoch of the early universe, and the creation of the universe,” said Dr. Raniwala, Associate Professor with the Physics Department of Rajasthan University.

Dr. Raniwala said the completely indigenous detector PMD had contributed to the event after proving its mettle in some of the earlier experiments in US and Geneva. In addition, a major part of the Indian contribution had gone into the construction of sophisticated tracking detectors and the signal-processing chip called “MANAS”. This chip was designed by scientists at SINP, Kolkata, and fabricated at SCL, Chandigarh.

The Indian delegation at the LHC inauguration included Chairman of the Department of Atomic Energy Anil Kakodkar and Ambassador Swashpawan Singh in addition to other scientists and diplomats including Director of Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre and of Saha Institute in Kolkata Bikash Sinha. The team had Archana Sharma, a CERN staff member, and senior scientists of the ALICE and the CMS experiments including the spokesman of the ALICE experiment, Dr. Jurgen Schukraft. Dr. Viyogi, director of IOP at Bhubaneswar, along with distinguished scientists Ahammed, Chattopadhayay, Nayak and Dr. Raniwala.

