Angry at being back in the spotlight, Ajmal Kasab’s village turned its ire on the media that converged there a few hours after the hanging of its most infamous son.

“You, media, you have defamed our village. Just get out from our area,” said Muhammad Zaman, a farmer, who asked his fellow-villagers gathered on the road to attack the assembled journalists and snatch their cameras and equipment if they did not leave.

When Kasab’s origins were traced to Faridkot in 2008, just a few days after he was arrested in Mumbai, this West Punjab village found itself on the international map for all the wrong reasons.

But after his family — parents, two sisters and a brother — went away from here, it was easier to forget that association. People here thought they had closed that chapter for good.

On Wednesday, it all came back to them as journalists again descended on the village, 140 km from Lahore.

Villagers gathered on the main approach road to prevent journalists from entering. They tried to snatch television cameras and even attacked a TV van. One of them, a landlord, could be seen calling people on his phone, asking them not to allow any media to enter the streets and instructed the locals not to speak to any reporter.

“This is an Indian conspiracy to defame Pakistan. We have no link with Kasab. We have no sympathy for him. India wants to defame Pakistan with such acts,” said local politician Ghulam Mustafa Wattoo of the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz). “Though we are against such acts of hanging, we think this is the Indian government and judiciary’s decision. This is an internal matter of India.”

The village, situated off the historic Grand Trunk Road, has about 10,000 people, most of them uneducated and poor. Despite the hostile reception to the media, this reporter managed to speak to some of them. One elderly man, who gave his name as Muhammed Manzoor, said the media was paying “too much” attention to the issue. Asked about Kasab’s hanging, he said: “He met his fate. As you sow so shall you reap.”

But he went on to say that the people in the village believe that “this Ajmal” must be from Faridkot on the Indian side of Punjab.

“Such reports linking his roots to this village are a deliberate attempt by enemy India. India might be thinking of using this as a pretext to conduct surgical strikes in Pakistan but it’s just their daydream.”

Some journalists who visited the village earlier this month ahead of the fourth anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks also encountered a similar unwillingness to acknowledge that Kasab belonged to Faridkot, or to even speak about him or his family.